CZ, welcome to the All-In podcast.
>> Well, thanks for having me here.
>> It's really, really great to see you.
>> It's a pleasure, Hannah.
>> I want to go all the way back to the
beginning because I think a lot of
people don't really know your background
the way that they probably should. The
part of the background that I really
care about is there's parts of your
early journey in Canada, which is very
similar to mine. You worked at
McDonald's. I worked at Burger King.
>> Okay.
>> But before that, your parents were able
to immigrate from China right around
Tanen Square, right? My father went to
you uh Canada to study in 1984. That's
five years before tan square.
>> How did that come about? So your father
stayed in Canada once he went there or
no?
>> Uh he he could visit us every twice a
year basically but he would most of the
time he was in Canada
>> and um yeah so
>> and he was a teacher in China.
>> He was a teacher professor. He was a
professor in China and then he went to
do a exchange program in University of
Toronto first.
>> Uhhuh. And then uh a couple years later
he moved to UBC University of Brit Brit
British Columbia in Vancouver. And then
he was there. We were applying back back
then it's actually very difficult to get
a passport. It takes like three or four
years to get a passport. We started
applying in 1985 fiveish. It took like
two three years to get a passport and
then uh after you get a passport
>> meaning a Chinese passport.
>> A Chinese passport. Yeah. So um and then
it takes like another few years to get a
visa. Like that's just how long the
process takes back then. And then uh
yeah, so we got it shortly after uh in
18 uh 1989.
>> When you look back, it almost seems
fortuitous. Isn't there a version where
post tan men they kind of just shut
everything down and say, "Okay, let's
just reset and then maybe they wouldn't
have approved the visa or
>> No, actually after that the visa got
easier. The passports like that got
harder." So they they don't they no
longer issue new passport like the
reissue of new passports got harder. But
we we were lucky. So we got the
passports like you know like maybe a
year before that and then we're waiting
for the visa and then afterwards the
visa got easier. So in some ways that
actually kind of helped us to get to get
the visa. Wow.
>> Yeah. In some really weird way.
>> Did that event shape your perspective in
any way shape or form or not really?
Were you too young or no? You were what
12?
>> I was 12. So I think consciously no. uh
this it didn't change me that much but I
subconsciously I think you know there
were discussions about know democracy
versus um so there's some discussions I
was actually living on a university
campus back then uh the China the
Chinese the China science and technology
universities one of the top four
universities in China so there were a
lot of discussions among the university
students which were older like which
were probably seven to nine years older
than me so there were some discussions
but I'm I was 12 so um I wasn't really
clued into it but I think subconsciously
It may have some kind of a subconscious
impact. I don't know.
>> And what was it like when you you moved
to Vancouver?
>> I moved to Vancouver. Yeah.
>> So you land in British Columbia.
>> Yeah.
>> In Vancouver. It's like a different
>> It's just different.
>> It's very different. It's very
different. Um it's just a completely new
country and then uh
>> did you know English at all or No,
>> I studied English for like couple years
in in school but you know I was not
fluent at all. But yeah, Vancouver is
great. Canada is you know nice green
nice greenery. um open space. Uh
everything's pretty uh the living
standard is high. Everything's pretty
pretty good. Um everything is very
clean. Uh the fruits are bigger. Um so
>> it's it's just a really nice
environment. Yeah.
>> Did both your parents work when the
family was reunited? What do they do?
>> Uh so my father stayed uh was like
assistant professor in the in the in the
un university. He gets like a thousand
Canadian dollars per month of like I
don't know what do you call it?
>> Like a stipent.
>> Yeah. We get some like really lowcost
house housing with the the faculty
housing from uh UBC. So we lived on
campus. Uh we I think on the third day
of our arrival in Canada, my mom went to
a factory sewing factory to work like
sewing clothes. Uh she was a math and
history teacher in China, but she
doesn't speak that much English. So she
couldn't get the same level of jobs and
she basically can only work at a minimum
wage factory.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh she did that for like seven 10 years.
Um and yeah so she she just worked
there.
>> My mom was a nurse in Sri Lanka and when
we immigrated when we got refugee status
>> my father was unemployed.
>> Yeah
>> and my mom became a housekeeper
>> and that's what she did and then she
became like a nurse's aid and and then I
think when I was like 14 is when I got
my first job.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I got my first job at
McDonald's at I think it's 14 or 15. I
think it was 15.
>> 14. Yeah.
>> We're the same age so it probably would
have been 14. I don't know what the Do
you remember what the minimum wage was
in British Columbia that
>> I do. Uh the minimum wage was $6, but
McDonald's
>> Oh, that's incredible. In Ontario, it
was 455.
>> So, but in McDonald's, they pay 450.
That's below minimum wage
>> because the McDonald's somehow had like
a special exemption because they a lot
of young kids work there.
>> Yeah.
>> So, um so, uh I think it was on my 14th
birthday that I applied for the job and
then a week later I was flipping burgers
there. Um and it was the first income I
had. You're not like this precocious
technical wonder kid who's coding 247
and learning computer science or were
you?
>> Uh no I wouldn't describe me as that. I
think I'm I'm a technical guy. Uh I
started computer science. I was learning
pro I was interested in programming even
in high school. Um but I wasn't a
programming wizard. Uh I wasn't like you
know one of those really genius coders.
>> Yeah.
>> I think I'm a decent coder. Uh I think I
I wrote some decent code in my in my
career and then um when I was like third
20 28 30-ish I moved away from coding. I
was like doing more business development
um sales and etc. So there was like
maybe I would say 80 years of my career.
>> So you're a normal immigrant kid
learning to adapt in Canada.
>> Yeah.
>> Did you have a lot of friends?
>> Yeah, I had a lot of friends. I had a um
my
>> only Asian friends or No,
>> both. I actually had like both Asian and
non-Asian friends. Uh but uh uh I was
actually in our school most of the
Asians hang out with Asians but I was
actually one of the exceptions that I
had like Caucasian friends. I had all
kind of uh uh different friends.
>> Yeah.
>> My teenager years in Canada was great.
It was like some of the best years like
I think those years are really shaped to
me to be a happy person. I'm generally a
happy person.
>> How did it feel when you weren't able to
get into my alma mater University of
Wateroo and so had to settle for McGill?
>> How did that make you feel? Does it make
you feel stupid?
So actually u I was decid my sister went
to Waterloo so I was I was uh deciding
between Waterloo and U McGill and maybe
UT. Uh I knew I wasn't going to go to
UBC. I wanted a different city.
>> Yeah.
>> And actually UBC gave me an offer but I
just knew I I don't I don't want to go
go there. Um at the at the time I uh my
friend's uh mother who I really respect
uh uh she said well you might want to
become a doctor because doctors have a
good living good a good lifestyle. Um I
took her advice. I study biology and
what is not much of a biology school.
>> True.
>> So, uh I went to McGill. Uh but then um
one semester later I said, "No, no more
biology. I got to I'm going to move to
computer science."
>> Was it a typical kind of college
experience for you? Did you have great
jobs in the summertime or were you just
like a an average normal university kid?
>> How'd you pay for school by the way?
>> I worked every summer. Uh I worked every
summer and I also worked part-time
during the school year. Um so
>> So no debt. You were like I must
graduate without debt.
>> Yeah. I didn't take any student debt. Uh
the first year I actually still took
about $6,000 Canadian dollars from my
dad. Um the second year I was still a
bit short. My sister gave me $3,000. And
then from that point on I never took
money from uh uh uh at all. I just I was
self-sustainable.
>> Wow.
>> Yeah. So no student debt. Very lucky. U
and uh but I just worked every summer
every like Yeah.
>> You know the best thing about Waterlue
which was a savior for me
>> the co-op was co-op program. Yeah. And I
had these incredible co-op jobs. I still
graduated with about $30,000 of debt.
>> But I was also pretty prolific trader
>> and equities.
>> Okay.
>> And my boss, this guy Mike Fischer,
>> did this incredible kindness to me where
>> I was working at a bank. And I was a
derivatives trader. That was my day job.
But I was trading equities and I had
made him enough money. And he said, he
called me Sherman. Didn't call me
Chimathi. He said, "Sherman, how much
debt do you have?" And I said, "It's
about 30." I said, "Fish, it's about
30,000." 32,000.
And he said, "Go downstairs right now to
the CIBC and pay your debt and I'll
write you a check."
>> Wow. You should have.
>> And he wrote me a $32,000 check.
>> I should have said 3,000 300,000.
>> But Canada is incredible because you can
get this education and it doesn't saddle
you with this
>> Yeah.
>> debt that you can't overcome,
>> which is not true in the United States
for many people anymore.
>> Yeah. Even in McGill, there were people
from the United States going to McGill,
paying international student uh tuition
and it was still cheaper than the US. I
was like that's crazy.
>> That's crazy.
>> Yeah. So yeah, we were lucky that the US
the Canadian tuition was okay.
>> So you graduate from McGill in computer
science.
>> Yeah. In computer actually I didn't
graduate from McGill. Um I went there
for four years and on my third year I
got an internship on my fourth year I
got my third year I got an internship
job and then um u extended extended
extended and I didn't go didn't go back
to McGill. So I didn't graduate from
McGill and later on I found out I still
need a bachelor's degree to apply for
work visas in Japan. So I went to one of
this is like the doc this is 2000 this
is the do like height. Um so I went to
an online education uh program called
the American College of Computer Science
uh and got a degree there.
>> Oh my god. Yeah. So you're technically a
graduate from that school.
>> Technically. Yes.
>> Okay. So which internship did you get
where you started to work there? Uh so
uh I got an internship uh at to in
Tokyo. Uh so I always uh in from from
first year college I always worked on a
programming job. So I worked at a
company called original sim writing some
simulation software and then um third
year I got into a company in Japan in
Tokyo called Fusion Systems um Japan and
then uh they were writing uh order
execution systems for brokers of uh the
Tokyo stock.
>> Sorry that's a Japanese company with an
office in Montreal or an office in
Canada or no?
>> No no I I went to Tokyo. You went to
Tokyo.
>> Yeah. It's actually an American uh a
bunch of American guys company that's in
Tokyo. Uh so it's like a bunch of guys
were
>> And you're thinking this is an
adventure. I'm going to go and live in
Tokyo for a summer.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I mean I was a college
student and living in Tokyo is like a
you know it's fun. It's dream. Yeah.
Yeah. And uh and the first time you go
there is like it's it's
>> from the future.
>> It's it's cool. Yeah. Yeah.
>> And what kind of software did you write?
>> Mostly order execution software. So the
same software like that moves orders and
buy what drives Binance today.
>> Pretty much. pretty much. So it's the
same same style like actually all the
software I was involved with have no
decision- making.
>> So when you first and were exposed to
this it was not like oh wow I love this
>> this makes sense or was it more okay I'm
asked to write this code and I
understand the concept so let me just do
it. Were you attracted to the subject
matter or you just did it because it was
your job? I first did it was because it
was my job right I was so young I didn't
know what all the different industries
are and actually when I got to the
company the company was giving me a
project on working on dig uh digital
imaging storage systems like know this
basically iPhone photos app but for for
for medical imaging uh for for Nikon
>> but very soon the company's main main
product is the order execution system
right
>> so I was involved in that and then that
became the thing over my career and I
like it uh because um it's it requires
quite a lot of technical expertise
everything is about efficiency making it
go as fast as as possible uh process as
low latency as possible right
>> um that kind of appeals to me I'm an
efficiency kind of driven guy like like
subconsciously and just to double click
on that when you look at high frequency
trading organization the susanas the
jumps they go to such a degree to
basically optimize for efficiency and
low latency all the way down to it's
their own circuit breakers it's their
own physical fiber infrastructure
they're willing to sort of pay the price
to just shave off a handful of
milliseconds on either end.
>> Yeah.
>> How does that manifest in the software?
So when you're writing that kind of
software, how do you actually optimize
for those boundary conditions in code?
>> Yeah. Yeah. So well, there's quite a few
levels, right? The first level you do is
basically you write a software to be
efficient and fast like no no slowness.
Uh uh you want to remove all the
database lookups. So you want to do
everything in memory and then um you
want to reduce any sort of additional
computation. uh you want to simplify the
risk checks pre especially pre-order pre
pre-trade uh risk checks and then the
more advanced versions you move on to
like the FPGA which is a network chip
card that's on the on on the on the on
the network card on the what we call the
ether ether card
>> so that you don't have to go all the way
up to memory and come all the way back
down to the processor
>> so back then when I was like still
writing code like maybe 10 years ago
that round trip is about 100 mill 100
microconds
>> microcs yeah
>> and then um by avoiding that you reduce
down to 20 microconds right
>> and then you move it to physical
infrastructure you want a collocation
right you want to
>> why haven't these organizations like in
the AI world for example with grock our
big observation even 10 years ago when
we were starting the business was this
exact idea which is it's really
inefficient for to sit in a GPU to go
all the way up to HBM to come back down
so let's just take SRAMM and just do
everything here on chip right
>> manage it with C to that technical
problem made a lot of sense and very
very fast for the decode phase of
inference makes a ton of sense Why when
so much money is on the line for high
frequency trading, why did they never
try their own custom silicon? I
understand FPGAAS, but nobody really
went to the point of actually saying
here's a specific ASIC or did they and
we just don't know about it. I don't
think it exists on very large scale. Um
the uh I think the algorithms change too
often. So when you go to hardware like
you want to design your own chip, uh it
it is very efficient. is highly is very
fast but when you want to change it uh
it takes a long time right so when when
you want to reprogram it I think FPJ
already offers kind of the the best
>> best of both the both worlds even FPGA
you want to reprogram it the programming
cycle is much is 10 times longer than
software
>> the company you worked at in Japan was
it successful
>> it's successful you got that company got
sold to a NASDAQ listed company just
before 2000
>> for a lot of money
>> for like $52 million back then so that
was decent money yeah
>> and So, is that when you said, "Hey,
hold on. There's something here." Or no,
was it something else that happened?
>> No. Uh, so at that time I was too young.
I was like 20 something. Um,
>> so you're working at this place. You're
just a coder.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> You're a salary man.
>> In Japanese terms, right?
>> Salary man. Yeah.
>> You're a salary man. So then walk us
through what happens afterwards.
>> So uh that company got sold. They
acquired there was a lot of culture
clashes between the parent company
versus the original company. Um that's
my first experience about you know how
mergers may not work.
>> Yeah. the the two managements were just
clashing and then um uh the the same
partners went to do a different company
uh called building two um but now this
partners the I didn't get any money but
the partners got quite a bit of money
now so they rented a very fancy office
um that company only lasted a year uh it
means that previous success doesn't
guarantee future success
>> in fact
>> um so uh they spent a lot of money had a
very nice office but has zero zero zero
revenue so that folded within a year and
that's 2001 and um so uh and early 2001
I was looking for new jobs and then
Bloomberg was hiring and this is right
before 911. Um I kind of got an offer
before 911 and then 911 happened. I
still haven't moved and then
>> where was this to New York or
>> this was in well I was still in Tokyo
back then and then Bloomberg is in New
York. The offer I was supposed
>> The offer was in New York.
>> The offer was in New York. So after 911
I called Bloomberg say hey is the job
still there? Do you still want me to go?
And they said well do you still want to
come? I was like yeah okay. So then I
went. So I went to New York in November
of 2001.
>> Wow. What was that like?
>> The streets were pretty quiet. Um
>> Yeah.
>> And uh but you know I was fine. I was
you know um New York is a is New York
was quiet for a few months but it became
lively pretty quickly I think. So I
didn't feel too much uh issues.
>> Um um so I then went to New York and
worked at Bloomberg for four years
>> doing exact again the same thing. You're
kind of a salary guy. You're working at
a big company,
>> salary, bonus, maybe some options or
some phantom equity or something like
that.
>> Yeah. So, um I joined as a senior
developer. Uh I was put into a team
called uh tradebook futures. They just
formed this team uh and uh they had a
system that allowed people to trade
futures on Bloomberg, but it wasn't it
was like spread out. So, they collected
that into into into one into one team
>> and still no inkling of like that
entrepreneurial bug.
>> Not really. back then I was like nah I I
worked
>> what were you looking for stability like
why like why Bloomberg being in New York
like what was it
>> I was just a young guy I was like I
think I was like 24 20 24 25 okay
>> so I was just a young guy trying to get
a job you know uh experience different
parts of the world and get and and just
find my way through um I I knew I wasn't
experienced enough to do
entrepreneurship myself right so I was
and I I was working a small company in
Tokyo the company only had like 200
Bloomberg at the time had about 3,000
people. So to me that was a big company.
>> Yeah.
>> And they fancy offices, fish tanks and
free food and everything. Um so I joined
as a senior developer. I got some good
bosses. I got promoted three times in
two years and then I was leading a team
of 60 initially and then kind of grew to
about 80 people. Um and that's when I
became sort of a manager. Uh I no longer
wrote code and I started
>> the worst transition.
>> The worst transition. Right. The worst.
>> So um so that's kind of my Bloomberg
experience. Yeah. So that and I Yeah. So
I had to stay there for four years.
>> And then you quit and moved to China.
>> Yes.
>> How does that happen?
>> I think was wrong like uh beginning of
2005. Um again the same uh friends I had
I made in Japan, they were talking about
starting a new company, a new uh fintech
company and they were in Asia, right? So
they're talking about Tokyo, Shanghai or
Hong Kong. And they said Shanghai is
most likely the most happening place for
the future of fintech. Um we should have
picked Hong Kong. Hong Kong had a lot
more happening since then.
>> Um, so I went there in 2005. So the it
was like five foreigners from a Chinese
perspective. U five Caucasians, four
Caucasians plus a Japanese plus me. I'm
the only one who speaks Chinese and my
Chinese was kind of rusty back then too.
So the six of us went there to do a new
IT start startup in Shanghai.
>> You So all you guys just land there and
what was the idea? So we thought you
know we have all this Wall Street
experience on Wall Street trading
technology experience.
>> So your other friends had they moved to
New York or no they were still in Japan
doing their own thing.
>> Two of the friends were in New York with
me and then um uh the other three were
from Japan right they were there they
always they were so the six of us came
together and uh we wanted to do we want
our idea was uh let's bring the wall
street trading technology into China so
we can service the brokers and exchanges
in China. Um but then so we went they
rented a very fancy office again. Uh
>> wait okay so hold on just
>> so when you guys start this company this
so this is now your first
entrepreneurial you're like okay let's
do this
>> pretty much
>> did you know to even ask the question
like okay guys what's our equity split
what's the cap table did you know any of
these things or you're just like great
let's go do it I'm just assuming it's
one sixth we're equal like how how did
it all
>> it wasn't one6 it was like the top guy
had like I don't know 39 40% and the the
the rest five of us split equally so I
had about 11% % or so.
>> Okay.
>> So, I knew that, but I didn't know like,
you know, all the ins and outs about,
you know, shareholder rights, uh, what
terms. I didn't know any of that.
>> Yeah. Preferred versus common, none of
it.
>> And then I
>> You're like, great, I got 11%. I'm
moving to Shanghai.
>> Yeah. So, I just have 11%. I didn't I
have no idea what common stock is or
versus preferred. So, uh, just went and
then but so I was a junior partner in
this group. And then, uh, once we landed
in China, I start because I speak
Chinese, right? So, I began talking to
potential clients. I went to talk to
brokers. I found out we are registered
as a wholly foreigner owned uh what we
call wolfie uh holy holy foreigner owned
enterprise.
>> Yeah.
>> The Chinese brokers and financial
institutions are not allowed to work
with a wolfie.
>> That's right.
>> U so we found out after we started a
company while we were in Shanghai and so
the company pivoted towards doing um uh
any any any IT system for any for any
company. We can be like
>> work for hire.
>> Work for hire. We can be fix
>> deote. You became deoid. uh not not even
deoid we can be fixing printers or we
can be writing like you know SAP
implementations for you we did all of
that so there's a whole spectrum of
things and so we did that for a few
years and we actually made a living
>> for a few years
>> yeah for for for a few years like uh and
we made a living out of that yeah we we
started we had a quite a number of
automotive clients uh the Shanghai
General Motors uh Shanghai Works Wagon
uh Shanghai first auto mo uh first
automotive they were all clients of ours
and like maybe three or four years in uh
we started having offices in Hong Kong
and then we were dealing with a Morgan
Stanley, Deutsche Bank, Credit Swiss.
>> So it grew so it was it was successful.
>> The company is still around. The company
is still around. So I I left in 2013
after 8 years. Um but the company is
still around.
>> So in the eight years you worked at that
company all in Shanghai.
>> I was mostly in Shanghai, but then I
spent quite a bit of time helping to set
up the Hong Kong office and then I was
also doing quite a lot of work for some
clients in in Tokyo.
>> How big did that company get? I think
even you got to about 200 people again
and it's kind of stayed there for as for
as as far as I know even till now.
>> And so as a junior partner you just take
profits and you share it like
>> Yeah. Yeah. So uh uh well actually I we
didn't take that much profits. Um I
actually invested most of my savings
back into that company and I actually
didn't cash out a penny. Um but wow
>> after a few years the company was uh s
stable enough to pay the partner
salaries that all of our kids go to
international school. So we get a we get
a we get a six figure salary.
>> At that point you had gotten married.
>> Yes. Yeah. So at that point uh uh Yeah.
So at that point I got married when I
was in New York. So like uh Yeah. So and
then u uh Yeah. So we I had two kids.
>> And you had met your ex-wife. How?
>> Yeah. I met her I met her in in in Tokyo
when I first went to Tokyo. So I met her
in 1999ish
um when I when I was first in Tokyo like
doing the interns.
>> Okay. And then um uh she visited me in
New York and then you know we got
married and then uh we had kids now we
are separated or we're divorced in
Shanghai. I had young kids and you know
it was enough salary to put the kids
into into international school and that
was that was good enough for me.
>> Wow.
>> Yeah.
>> So far again
>> nothing here tells anybody that you're
about to go and start Binance.
>> No no nothing
>> nothing. No I didn't know. So then 2013
2014,
how old were you then at that point? You
were
>> uh 20 2013 I I would be 36.
>> Yeah. Mid-30s.
>> Yeah. Yeah. So
>> So again, salary guy.
>> Yeah.
>> Junior partner at this thing. It's going
well. Your kids are in private school.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> So then what happens?
>> So then uh I came across Bitcoin, right?
So um well, one of my friends tells me,
"Look, see, you got to look at this
thing called Bitcoin." I look into it. I
was like uh it took me about roughly six
months to fully understand it. So that
was from like roughly July 2013
>> and that's because you read the white
paper and you said I need to read it
again and read it again or
>> Yeah. Yeah, pretty much. And then um
because back then there was the Bitcoin
talk or forum and then that's pretty
much it.
>> But did you see my Bloomberg article in
2012? Is that that had any influence?
>> Unfortunately, I don't I I read a bunch
of stuff. I actually don't remember what
I
>> I'm just kidding. But I did write this
thing and it's funny because I had a
kind of a relationship with Mike
Bloomberg. was kind of not even mentor
like he was just too senior but
>> he knew me he liked me he would invite
me to certain things
>> with Mike Bloomberg
>> yeah with Bloomberg and and then I got
to know some of Mike's team
>> and in 2012 or so they said would you
write an op-ed
>> okay
>> and I was like yeah and I wrote it about
Bitcoin and I said everybody should put
1% of their net worth into Bitcoin and I
said it's basically schmuck insurance
>> and then they published it in the
Bloomberg terminal or whatever and
that's when I got redpilled on Bitcoin
where I was like man it's the most
incredibly interesting technical product
that I had read about and I think the
thing that captivated me I don't know if
you felt this way it was the only white
paper that I read end to end where I
thought this is one of the most
elegantly written pieces of
non-technical pros do you know what I'm
trying to say like it's not
>> something that is like dense and an
archive that is just meant for PhDs
>> you could literally give it to your
sister to your brother to somebody
non-technical And they would understand
it.
>> Yeah. Yeah. And it's only nine pages.
>> And exactly. You know what an enormous
amount of intellectual skill it takes to
do that.
>> Oh yeah. Oh yeah. Yeah. It's much harder
to write it very short.
>> Much harder and elegantly and simply.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Anybody else try to rewrite
that? I think it' be 90 pages.
>> So the friend that showed it to you, was
he a co-orker of yours or no? Just a
random friend in Shanghai.
>> It's a friend. It's a it's a it's a
random Well, not a random. He's a
friend. Uh we don't have any working
relationships. His name is Ron Tao. He
runs uh I guess now Skyline Ventures.
And back then he he was at Lightseed
Ventures
>> of course
>> he was a managing director of Lightseed
Ventures in China.
>> Okay.
>> So we play we have a poker house game
like you know small stakes. Um a bunch
of uh I a bunch of entrepreneur like
struggling entrepreneurs versus like
VCs. Uh so the VCs have all the money
and all
>> David versus Yeah.
>> So but you know it's it's a fun it's a
fun game. It's not a very serious game.
So on in one of the poker games uh Ron
says CD you should look at this thing
called Bitcoin. I was like, "Okay,
Bitcoin." Okay. So, uh, and so we talked
about it a little bit and then Bobby
Lee, uh, who was at the time was working
for Walmart, was just about to quit
Walmart to join BTC China to become
their CEO. And, uh,
>> uh, as part of that deal, Bobby said he
will bring Ron in as an investor,
Lightseed into
>> into BT BTCC
>> into BTCC. So, that's in two uh, July
2013. I was like, okay. So, they two
guys are pretty serious about this. So I
had lunch with Bobby the next day and
Bobby said put 10% of your net worth
into Bitcoin. He said there's a small
chance you will go to zero then you lose
10%. Uh there's a much higher chance you
will go 10x and you'll double your net
worth. I was like okay sounds pretty
serious. So u that's when I started
learning about reading the white paper
more carefully. Took me six months. Uh
so it was till the end of 2013 I started
like I'm I'm convinced now. I'm ready to
go. But then Bitcoin went from $70 in
mid 2013 to like $1,000 by end of 2013.
So you already went more than like 15x.
>> How did that make you feel?
>> I was like, I'm I'm too late.
>> I was like, I wish I got in early.
>> Yeah.
>> Cuz when back then, right? No. Doesn't
matter when you get into Bitcoin, you
always feel late.
>> Yeah.
>> Right. Because everyone you talk to has
in the Bitcoin industry has bought
before you.
>> And did you talk to anybody while you
were learning about it to say like you
have a community in in Shanghai? there's
a comm there's a very small community in
Shanghai and then I was basically
talking to anybody in the world that's
that's willing to talk with me uh and
then I had a couple friends in Taiwan
they used to they they worked for TSMC
back then uh because and then they were
trying to do a mining chip uh for for
Bitcoin so two of those guys left TSMC
try to do this startup startup never
never really took off but that was one
group of guys I was talking to um there
was uh another couple they were mostly
minors there was another guy called um
his nickname is fish uh silver fish uh
in China. He's like a big minor. He's
runs the F2 pool even today.
>> Oh sure.
>> So those guys were based in Hondro um
you know I went they came to Shanghai I
talked to them etc. So there was a group
of guys that you talked to and then uh
the biggest thing was um in December
2013 December 13th 2013ish there was a
Bitcoin conference in Las Vegas. I flew
there um to meet everyone everyone in
the industry was there. Uh there was a
200 people conference. Uh Vitalik was
there, Matt Rosak was there, Charlie Lee
was there, uh um bunch of guys were
there. Um and the same same guys still
today. Um but and then at the time just
before that it was the Silk Road arrest
of uh Ross
>> Wubber.
>> So the media was like no this Bitcoin is
only used by drug lords.
>> Um and when you go to the conference it
was like a bunch of kids, a bunch of
geeks geeks and they're very nice
people, right? So you talk to Vitalic,
you know, you know, he's a very nice
person.
>> Were you still working at that company
while you were doing all of this
moonlighting?
>> Yes. So this is what this is kind of the
>> You tell your partners, hey guys, I'm
just going to go to Vegas for a couple
days. I'll be back.
>> Pretty much. Yeah. Yeah. And then um and
then when I got back, I told the
partners, I we should do a Bitcoin
payment system because Bit Pay was kind
of the big player back then. Uh Bit Pay
just raised $4 million US in 2013.
>> So they was kind of the uh the large
player
>> actually in the employee.
>> Can I tell you a very funny bit? I have
two Bit Pay stories.
>> Sure.
>> I was very focused on trying to prove
the transactional capability of Bitcoin.
>> Yeah.
>> I went to my local car dealership
>> and I bought a car with Bitcoin using
Bitay in 201 12 or 13. Wow.
>> That Range Rover is probably $90
million. And then even more stupidly,
there was a real estate development in
Lake Tahoe.
>> Yeah. called Martis Camp. Beautiful. And
I had owned a couple of lots and I said,
you know, it would be great if I
actually could prove that you could buy
real estate with Bitcoin.
>> And I called the guys at Bit Pay and
they were like, yeah, we can facilitate
this transaction. No problem. I bought a
piece of land. And then again, I thought
this is an interesting story. And the
Wall Street Journal wrote about it. And
now that piece of land is a billion
dollars,
>> but you you cannot calculate this way,
right? So
>> it's easy. I calculate it this way every
day.
>> You can't calculate it that way because
the stupidest purchase ever.
>> No. No. No, no, no. That's this that's
the bucket of money mentality, right?
>> No, no, no. It's true.
>> Right. So, even if you didn't use
Bitcoin, you would have used some money
to some
>> Exactly.
>> buy the land. You could have used that
money to buy Bitcoin.
>> Yeah.
>> Right. So, Yeah. Yeah.
>> So, you're like, "Hey, we should do a
version of BitBay."
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> And your partners are like, "What are
you talking about?"
>> Exactly.
>> And now, at this point, you still hadn't
bought any Bitcoin.
>> No. At this point, like I had like maybe
one Bitcoin.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. And one Bitcoin is like only a
thousand bucks back then. Yeah. So,
Yeah.
>> So, then what happens? And then so but
and then so I tell my partner look I
think this is this is the biggest this
is the biggest thing in my life right so
when I think there's three fundamental
back then I realized there was like two
fundamental technologies in my life this
the internet I was too young to do too
much with it and there was this Bitcoin
thing and I wasn't I was 35 36 I wasn't
going to miss it the next thing that's
going to come along is going to be 15
years later
>> you feel old when you go to Vegas and
you see all these young 22 year old kids
and you're like I missed it did you
think that at any point or
>> no 35 36 is still okay. Okay. So, it's
still like doable. Uh you know, you
don't feel super old. Today I feel that
>> but I thought the next thing that that
will come will be 10 15 years later and
with that's AI, right? So, today I say
like there's three fundamental
technologies in my life. But back then
like that's the that's the that's the
thing,
>> right?
>> So for me it was very clear I got to I
got to do something in this industry,
>> right?
>> So u and uh so I told my partners look
I'm going to I'm going to I'm going to
quit uh and I'm going to do work in the
Bitcoin industry. That's what it's
called back then. And then um uh and
then I was I also need to buy Bitcoin
and I don't have many money so um I
don't have so I just I said look I'm
going to sell my apartment in Shanghai
and then buy Bitcoin but selling the
apartment takes time. So it took me like
a a solid few months to sell it and it
was it was only
>> you sold it where did you just got a
rental apartment?
>> I sold it at uh at the time actually my
family also moved to Tokyo. So my family
moved to Tokyo. We lived in a rental
apartment. Um so
>> in Tokyo
>> in Tokyo. Uh and then I was traveling in
Shanghai. So that's kind of the time I
started moving started separating from
uh from the from from the family as
well. So I was spending a lot of time
traveling,
>> right?
>> And uh so I sold the apartment and for
roughly $900,000 like just under a
million bucks. Um, and then started
buying and I got paid in trenches
because, you know, you get a first down
payment, you got paid in trenches and
every trench I get, I just buy. The
first trench at $800 and then Bitcoin is
dropping $600, $400. Kind of averaged to
about $600.
>> Incredible. Yeah. Incredible.
>> So now you have your Bitcoin position,
but you still don't have a job.
>> Yeah. Well, I was looking for a job at
the same time, but you were looking for
a job in the Bitcoin industry or you
were just looking for any job
>> in the Bitcoin industry. That was very
specific. Um, it didn't take me that
long to get a job. Uh you like the gap
was pro from the time I said I'm going
to quit until I finalized the job was
probably about two to three weeks.
>> Oh wow. Yeah.
>> And so who hired you?
>> I first discussed with BTCC Bobby he
wanted to hire me and then um uh but
then uh blockchain info came along. Uh I
bumped into Roger Ver so and then he at
the time blockchain uh blockchain info
was I was the third person to join the
blockchain info team. There was a uh Ben
Reefs who's a founder and there was
Nicholas Kerry who was just the C hired
the CEO
>> and I was like the third guy in so I was
like VP of engineering because Ben we
want to reserve the CO title for Ben.
>> So uh uh so yeah I joined I I joined uh
blockchain info. I flew to uh York in
London like three hours north of New uh
London. Um uh I spent some time there
you know figuring out what to do. Yeah.
>> And how did that go?
>> Uh that didn't go very well. We expanded
the team to 18 people and then um Peter
Smith joined uh as a CFO wanting to
raise money for blockchain evil.
Coinbase just finished raising at
raising around at 30 raising $30
million. Um and that was a big one in
the industry back then. Um Peter Smith
somehow maneuvered himself into the CEO
position pushing like Nicholas Kerry to
the product manager kind of role. Um but
the culture kind of changed a little
bit. So um uh I left um a bunch of the
developers I hired left um and then um
Ben Reef Ben Reef sold quite a lot of
his position also left in a few months
later. So that was that was my so that
was only like a few I think I was only
there for like uh six seven months. So
that didn't work out too well. Uh but I
learned a lot uh from that experience.
>> Yeah. You learn what not to do. No, they
all know like blockchain info when I
joined the the Baron Reeves said look we
have no company we have no office
everyone works remotely we just pay
everybody in Bitcoin and so that's
something I learned from that company
and I still look that's still very
heavily used in Binance today
>> so I learned a lot I also learned that
you know that company the whole
marketing they at the time blockchain
info was the largest user platform in
the industry right so they had about two
million wallets uh more than Coinbase at
the
And um uh the entire marketing was one
thread on bitcointtalk.org
one thread. The thread is 150 pages. Um
Ben Ree just replies to that thread and
that's how you grew to a 2 million user
platform. I was like okay so you can do
some you can do quite a lot of guorilla
marketing to be successful.
>> Wow.
>> So I I learned a lot. U but the culture
changed a little bit. it wasn't fit for
for me and then I I left and then that
was when um
uh hired me into into okay coin. Yeah.
So I he said look why are you working
for this wallet company your experiences
dealing with order execution exchanges.
So so he hired me there
>> as a developer
>> as a CTO uh
>> as a CTO.
>> Yeah. Um so uh yeah so in the process I
think BTC China helped me again.
Uh so you know I was kind of looking for
a job again right so I left and then um
uh uh was talking to me and Bobby Lee
found out and Bobby Lee meant so okx
okay coin back then uh will offer me 5%
equity um and then for uh sorry uh BTC
China came along and offered me 10%
equity and then OKCoin matched it within
three hours and then I was debating
between Shanghai and Beijing and I
decided to go to Beijing to join OKCoin
back then uh Hu at that time had 1%
equity Uh so she hired me to be like the
the the the bigger sort of partner in
the business.
>> Wow.
>> Um so that's that's how I went to OKCoin
um for about 8 months or so. Um that
didn't last long either.
>> Yeah. Because
>> I think there were also culture
differences um at OKCoin. Um uh there
were some stuff that I didn't agree
with. Um both in terms of like you know
simple examples like how they run
promotions, how they how they do fee
discounts uh where you have to ask for
it like they they advertise a fee
discount but you have to ask for it to
get it. It doesn't apply to everybody
even though they advertise as such.
>> So small things like that. And then um
so yeah, so that was in early 2015 I
said no I'm I'm going to leave. Um, so
that's kind of a uh so that lasted for a
few months uh in 2015. Yeah. 2014
mostly. Yeah. So how do we get from
there to Binance?
>> So 2015 um I I with a couple of my old
colleagues said we're going to do a
Bitcoin exchange in um in Tokyo in Japan
because this is uh a year after
>> after Mount Gaus and all that. Yeah.
>> Yeah. So there's a vacuum in Japan. So
um we got two developers that came to me
on the same day I decided to leave
OKCoin. they came to me said look we
somehow they also quit their pre
respective jobs. Um I said okay well why
don't with the three of us do something
and so I we said okay so I will I will
be the CEO and then I'll be the big guy
uh with more equity and then I'll be uh
responsible for raising u I and I was
paying them a salary out of my own
savings um and I wasn't taking anything.
So the two developers uh we we whipped
up a demo very quickly. We downloaded an
open source software for an exchange and
then uh we tweaked the UI to be a little
bit sexier and then uh we hooked up.
>> You just forked an open source project
like this is our this is Binance.
>> No, we we didn't say it was Binance.
Yeah, this is before this is before
Minance.
>> Yeah.
>> And we didn't say we I was very
transparent. I was like this we whipped
up this demo up in two days or in a few
days.
>> Um and this is a demo that we can show
you. But this is not our
>> the ultimate product. It's just it's
just a proof of concept just Yeah. So um
it's like uh yeah so and then but and
then we had a script that took Bitfinex
uh market data. Bitfinex was like a the
large exchange back then and we just
kind of copy their order book and the
order book was flashing there's trades
going on. So it was a very lively demo
and when the investors saw that it was
like wow this is good technology
but it's not just a demo it's it's it's
a when they ask me questions I can
answer in very deep ways right when they
ask me like you know how do how do you
structure this to be a fast uh exchange
we I can talk about know in memory uh
matching um uh optimizing database all
all the all the stuff you've learned
>> yeah so I can go really deep when they
ask questions right so the my my
knowledge is there
>> right
>> so they were like uh They were like,
"Okay, this technology is cool, but you
could you won't you won't be successful
running a crypto bitcoin exchange in
Japan. You don't speak Japanese, right?"
I was like, "Okay, they have a point."
Um, so they said, "Why don't you sell
the this technology to other exchanges
because most of the Japanese exchanges
don't have very good technology." Um, I
was like, "Okay." So then I went to talk
to a few of the exchanges. Like
literally two weeks later, we signed a
contract with one of the with one of the
exchanges and then they paid 30 $360,000
for the for the system. Uh so they made
a down payment of 100 $180,000.
Um that was enough for me not to pay
salaries anymore. So I was happy with
that. So uh we pivoted from a wanting to
run a our own Bitcoin exchange to a
exchange systems for provider.
>> Yeah. You're selling software.
>> Uh we we're selling software. And then
um in July 2015, a bunch of Chinese uh
uh companies came to us saying they want
systems for
>> Can I just say by the way, sorry to
interrupt you, but it's really
incredible because there are so many
founder stories when somebody says,
"I've started a company." And then
somebody says, "Well, how much is it
worth or how successful is it?" And you
know, let's just say Binance is a $200
billion company,
>> probably less than that, but
>> it's in the neighborhood.
A lot of people think that there is some
incredible origin story that is like
lightning in a bottle. But so often than
not, the story is more yours, which is
this. It's kind of like moving along,
meandering, learning things, trying some
other things,
>> this non-obvious iteration, and then all
of a sudden
>> things kind of catalyze. But even then,
you still don't get the right form
because you're licensing it really. And
people just misunderstand that this is
actually more what entrepreneurship is.
It's the resilience and the grit to just
keep grinding.
>> For sure. For sure. I think most most
people idealize like, you know, um
entrepreneurship that they just hate it
and they they they
>> it's like the Facebook story. You hack
it together in college and oh it's now a
million users.
>> It's Facebook is is is Microsoft, right?
Exactly. And also Google this three are
like you know college uh garage and they
just
>> Exactly. Even but the reality Binance or
Tesla it's like a grind. It's it's a
grind and it's a grind.
>> You have to like go so many different
ways
>> and it wasn't obvious from the
beginning.
>> Yeah.
>> Right. So I think those three are the
exceptions that kind of just hit it from
day one.
>> Exactly.
>> Um but then that kind of shaped the
people's perception like 99% 99.9% of
other business successful businesses are
not like that.
>> Right.
>> Right. So if you look at now any other
successful company. Yeah. So the same
same here.
>> So get us to the founding moment.
>> Yeah. So we did
>> so you're licensing the software.
>> We licensed the software. We that
business went pretty well. So, we've had
like 30 different exchange clients.
>> Wait, no way.
>> Like over over like
>> over multiple years.
>> Over two years. In two years, we signed
up.
>> Yeah. So, this is a multi-million dollar
>> Oh, yeah. Yeah.
>> licensing business.
>> Yeah. So, and it's a SAS business,
right? What we call exchange as a
service uh business. So, we charge a
fixed monthly fee every month. And this
is platform business is paying us. It's
very steady business. Every new client
we So, every new client increases the
the revenue. So, every new client is
like a step up.
>> Exactly. So it's a very actually a very
very good business model. But then in
March 2017 uh the Chinese government
shut down most of our clients. Uh and
then um and then by May we're like
>> right and they don't touch you because
you're the software vendor
>> with a software vendor. Exactly. We
don't run any business. So with a
software vendor so um but then our
businesses we don't we have no clients
right. So uh we lost our clients and so
by May we were like okay we need to
pivot. Um well by April May we were like
figure out how to pivot. Um by end of
May we was like okay uh actually three
guys who worked for me said they want to
do a Polon next copycat. Polex was the
biggest uh exchange back then. Um and
then I said let's let me invest. We have
some extra cash. Three days later they
want to do some onchain chat trading
software. Was like no we're not going to
invest in that anymore. Um and then I
said well why don't we do that? We have
the exchange system already. Uh we still
need to customize it to do a cryptoto
crypto only trading.
>> My gosh. So in May we said okay uh we're
going to do a crypto we're gonna do an
exchange again. Um the team said fine uh
sure.
>> How big is the team at this point?
>> 20 people. So um and we had tech people.
We don't have marketing because we are
to be business right. We we have we have
two sales guys two sales guys plus me.
>> Um and then uh we said well now we can
run our own let's let's do our own
cryptoto crypto exchange. Um so and then
so that was the end of May and then June
1st to June 10th uh there was a guy who
who was a BTC co-founder uh Link he ran
an ICO in China he raised 15 million US
dollars in in 10 days and with and then
I looked at him I was like I was like he
only had a white he only had one
document and one website no product
nothing he raised $15 million US if if
he can do that I might be able to do
that too
>> you need aded venture funding you're
like if I get the $1 million. I can
build out a team. I can invest in some
marketing. I can be in the J curve and
not feel the pressure.
>> Exactly. Yeah. So, originally we were
going to go to the VC funding route,
right? But then when I saw that, I was
like, well, and and and everyone talking
about ICOs back then. Uh I went to like
I went to a conference uh mid June uh
2017 and everyone was talking about ICO.
Everyone's like, CZ, you got to do an
ICO. You got to do an ICO. So, um by mid
June uh June 14th was the date. And then
I said, okay, called the team said we're
going to do an ICO. write a white paper
and then by
>> and so did you have a name at that point
like in the Bitcoin community or in the
crypto community either in China or in
Japan or somewhere
>> I had a little bit of a name even
working at blockchain info uh uh quite a
lot of people know me uh blockchain info
was the most popular platform back then
right
>> and OKCoin was also like I was a CTO I
was quite I was quite active on social
media um I was also kind of managing
their international markets non-English
speaking or non-Chinese speaking markets
because nobody else I was the best
English speaker on that me even though
my English is not that great but uh so I
had a I had a little bit of a a name uh
uh people know uh people know me in the
community
>> because you needed a bit of a name or
some kind of pedigree to actually do an
ICO at this point.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, but this is a
advantage of when you get involved early
in the industry like you go to a few
conferences like there's 200 people and
you go to like by the second time you go
there people know you right
>> but the third time is people like oh you
know
>> you're the expert already right so u so
I had a I had I had a bit of a
reputation uh so I thought that link
quite the guy who did the ICO in China
he's quite well known in China but he's
not known internationally I have a
little bit of both so I said well I can
probably do an ICO and raise the same
amount so we Uh, and um,
>> so who are the buyers of the Binance
ICO?
>> To be honest, even to this day, I don't
know.
>> Even to this day, you don't know,
>> right? It's like I think,
>> but are they Chinese? Are they Japanese?
Are they people from all around the
world that kind of knew you? Was it that
your white paper was really good?
>> Okay. So, I think in terms of
demographic, it's probably like 80 the
ICO purchases were probably 80 80 to 90%
Chinese. And there were some like
international guys who who bought it.
Uh, and I think the data shows that
there was about 20 20,000 people who
bought in the ICO.
>> 20,000 people.
>> 20,000 people. So, and this is like a
brand new brand. Uh, some people know me
in the industry and that was it.
>> So, even though the exchanges were put
out of business in China,
>> yeah,
>> the ICO was allowed.
>> No, the ICO wasn't banned back then.
>> Wasn't banned.
>> Yeah.
>> It was not not allowed.
>> It was not not allowed. Exactly. So, let
me let me let me let me just make one
clarification. The exchange clients that
that we were serving were mostly stamp
uh cultures exchanges, not crypto
exchanges. Okay.
>> Crypto exchanges were not banned in
March. Crypto exchanges were banned
after we started.
>> I see.
>> So uh that was in September. We're
talking about like June, July kind of
2017.
>> Wow. You're really threading a needle.
>> Yeah. Yeah. So I we didn't know that
that B was coming. We just thought like
you know those
>> How much of the company did you sell?
>> No, we didn't have we we just the coins.
>> We launched the token.
>> You had to do no equity participation.
There's no there's no equity that
there's no equity uh involved. So we
just we launched a new token B&B is
still there today
>> and then we said look we're going to
sell uh we're going to sell 60% of it
for $15 million
>> roughly. Right. So uh because we're
tokening bitcoins
>> and what were the original tokconomics
that you designed for the B&B token?
>> Well, we said a bunch of things but the
main one that was going to be live very
quickly was going to be uh if you hold
B&B you receive 50% fee discounts when
you trade on Binance eventually the
platform that gets launched. Um, that
was the main thing. But we also said,
look, it's going to be a it's going to
have eventually it's going to have its
own chain, it own decentralized
ecosystem. There's like three or four
things.
>> So then you guys must have been
ecstatic. You're like, wow, we raised 15
million bucks. We're now going to launch
this exchange. But then September comes
around and then exchanges themselves.
So then what do you do?
>> Yeah. September comes around. September
4th, the like seven different
departments of Chinese government issued
a memo together saying that number one
exch crypto exchanges are no longer
allowed in China. ICOs are no longer
allowed. Mining is not allowed, crypto
mining. Uh we said, well, we're gonna
move. Well, we said uh we have to move.
Uh by then it was clear that even while
at the time China was one of the do the
the largest user base, uh they have like
30 something% user base from China, but
we still have like 70% from the rest of
the world. We said, look, if we cut off
that 30%, we can still survive. We can
we can we actually survive pretty well.
>> Yeah. Um, so we said, well, I just said,
"Look, let's move. Let's move. Uh, let's
move to Tokyo."
>> Back to Tokyo.
>> Back to Tokyo, right?
>> You love Tokyo.
>> I I I've been I've been back in and out
of Tokyo. I know it.
>> And by the way, at that point, do you
speak Japanese as well?
>> I speak very little Japanese. Uh what I
call taxi Japanese. I can I can say
like, "No, thank you. Go left, go
right." In a restaurant, I when I order,
I say this, this, this, not the not the
full menu names.
>> Yeah.
>> Sushi, I can name most of them.
>> Okay.
>> Yeah. So, that's my Japanese level. But
you know I know Japan, I know Tokyo. It
wasn't it's not like a new country for
me, right? So I said like let's move to
Tokyo. And we had like 30 people then,
right? So
>> and everybody moved.
>> Everybody moved.
>> Wow.
>> Back then um eight years ago I think
very like maybe one or two of the people
were married. Uh and nobody had kids. Uh
so it was like a very easy move for the
team.
>> Yeah. Uh so it's everybody just packed
up and moved. I remember one girl cried,
one product manager, she cried because
her her boyfriend is in is in China. So
she cried but she moved with us and u
she's not married to her boyfriend. So
anyway,
>> incredible.
>> So yeah, so we moved to Tokyo like u
when China did that um and uh our
platform continue to grow. Yeah.
>> So when you first launched Binance, was
it an instant hit or did it take energy
to find that product market fit? at
first few zealous users that would tell
everybody else like how did the verality
start? How did the liquidity really get
built?
>> So, Binance I would say the product was
growing pretty well but the token price
went down uh from ICO price it went down
30 40%. It took about 3 weeks to
recover. Uh so, uh when we launched the
product uh because at that time crypto
is still pretty hot. I think we the
product market fit was there. Um it
wasn't a new idea. It's just a cryptoto
crypto exchange. So then the ICO was
critical then, right? Because these
people say, "Well, I own this token now.
I can trade at a fee discount."
>> Yeah.
>> So that's why I'm going to choose
Binance.
>> Yeah.
>> But was it also architected better? Was
it materially faster or more reliable?
>> Yeah. Yeah. For sure
>> it was.
>> It was. So back then uh when we launched
you can even even using your eyeballs,
you can see that placing an order on
Binance is so much faster than on
competing platform.
>> And so the performance of of the
exchange system was visible. Back then
2017, who were the big platforms that
you were competing with?
>> There was Polonex, Bitrex were the
biggest ones and then there's a few
Chinese ones. There's Hobi, OKX, uh,
OKCoin back then. Um, and then in the
Western world, Coinbase was there. Um,
Gemini was Gemini wasn't there back
then. Um, Gemini was later. Um, so
Bitstamp was there. Uh, Bitfinex was
there. Um, now they're kind of really
really small.
>> So you're now in your late 30s.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> And this thing is working.
>> 40s now.
>> 40s, sorry. 40s. How did you internalize
the success? You're like, "What is
this?" Like, "What what's happening?"
Like, "Are you saying that to yourself
or
>> Yeah, there were some really surreal
moments where you were like, is this
real?"
>> Yeah.
>> In a good way. Said like, "How like
what's our revenue?"
>> She I forgot the number, but she said
like a couple a couple hundred bitcoins.
Like, that's crazy. We can't be making
like are you sure? She's like, "Yeah,
we're sure." Like, "No, this number
can't be correct. We must be off by like
a magnitude." And we double check,
double check, triple check like correct.
I was like, that's crazy. And then there
was also a period where three weeks in
uh when the B&B price was recovering. So
B&B ICOed at like about 10 cents. It
dropped to like 0.0 uh up dropped to 6
cents. And then um uh Hi join, we
announced Hi joining and then for the
next two three weeks um every time I you
know you go to sleep, you wake up the
token is up 20%. You go to a meeting
come up the token up 20%. You go to the
bathroom, come back, and tokens up 20%.
>> I mean, it must have been very quick
where you're like, wait a minute, I'm
rich.
>> That came a little bit later. That came
in early 2018, about six, seven, seven,
eight months in. Forbes put me on the
cover.
>> Uh, that's when like, well, I said,
well,
>> how did they even know to find you at
that time to put you on the cover?
>> I actually don't know, but Forbes was
doing a crypto edition. I see. So with
all the crypto guys and then um they
already had a picture of Italic doing a
fancy hand gesture which is really cool
picture. So um yeah so uh yeah so they
they invited us they they contacted our
PR department which maintains contact
with them uh which is really team back
then um like team of four or five girls
um and H says like well Forbes want to
do a special feature with you and take
some photos I think you should go. I was
like, I don't want to go. But I said,
we're a new brand. Forbes can still help
us, you know, uh, increase the brand
>> with awareness. Yeah.
>> Yeah. Yeah. So, I said, okay, fine. I'll
go. So, I went to do the photo shoot.
That was like my first photo like to put
makeup on me and then the first time put
makeup.
>> Cy, what is what is money?
>> Well, is it important? I mean, don't
take this wrong way, but
>> you got rich old.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> So, did it matter at that point? What is
money when you're in your 40s and you
make it?
>> It still matter. Uh, but money is not
everything. I think I was old enough
that there's a couple things that
happened to me. Number one is I was
older as like 40ome. So I'm not like a
young 20-year-old that just you know
Lambos, big parties.
>> Too old for that. Uh so I have also my
personality is quite stable. So I don't
get too excited on things.
>> Um also the other thing not to brag but
uh I went from like a barely financially
free to like know cover forbes and I was
like wait a second like how how how rich
am I? I don't even know. I don't like
when I look at my wallet nothing changed
like Forbes Carver nothing changed for
me. Um but then people say look now you
might be a billionaire. I was like am I
really a billionaire? Like it doesn't
feel that way. I was like even like a
month ago like not a month like at that
time when when we fled well when we left
China to go to Japan uh I booked economy
classes for a redeye flight and he was
like no maybe we should upgrade to a
business class so we can lay down and
sleep. Okay that makes sense. That's you
know so like I have those kind of
habits. So uh when you make money
successively like you know you from one
from 1 million you become 10 million you
might want to buy some fancy cars from
to 100 million you might want to buy a
you know some yacht or something to a
billion then you have I didn't go
through that stepwise process. I just
went from like a relatively okay kind of
thing to like you're on the cover of
Forbes.
>> Yeah.
>> So um and so I didn't develop quite a
lot of those habits.
>> What does it what does it mean now? Now,
I mean, depending on the day,
>> yeah,
>> you're a deca billionaire or a
centiionaire. What does it all mean?
>> I it doesn't mean very much to me. I
think money is two things. Number one,
you you have to take care of yourself.
You have to have food, shelter, you
know,
>> which is very minimal amount of money.
>> Very minimal. Like you don't need that
much for that.
>> Yeah. People can confuse themselves and
create all kinds of complexity, but it
doesn't take much.
>> It doesn't take much. Um, so that I for
sure have. So, I have I have a very I
don't have a luxury life, but I have a
very comfortable life, I think. Um, and
then the other
>> Sorry, what does that mean?
>> If you look at my house, my my house
like the living room water leaks every
month or so because the the house is too
so old. But that's the house that has
that's the right size for me at right
now. Um, no, it's not. We'll just fix it
whenever it leaks. U, so that that still
happens like that happened a month ago.
So like people think I live in a very
fancy house, you know, all this other
craz,
you know, it kind of fits all my family
members. Yeah.
>> Um, but it's not a it's a old house uh
that I bought third or fourth hand, but
it's it's in the right location. It
works for me. It's in the right
location. It's functional. Um, things
break once in a while. It's fine.
>> Would you say it's because you're
practical or is it just because you're
just not moved by
>> I'm function driven.
>> You're function driven.
>> If it functions, I'm okay. I I don't
care about the fanciness. I don't care
about style. I don't care about colors.
I don't care about glitting gold. And if
it's functional, I'm okay.
>> Right. So, uh, if it if it solves the
problem, I'm good.
>> Do you ever have bouts of insecurity?
>> Uh,
not really. I'm I I know my weaknesses,
so and I learned to deal with it. So,
uh, I'm not I hope I'm not super
arrogant. Uh, so I don't think I'm
arrogant.
>> I've only gotten to know you in the last
couple years.
>> Yeah. I saw videos of you, I think it
was in the late teens, early 2000s,
and my immediate reaction because that's
always been my struggle is sort of these
bouts of insecurity, ego. I thought,
man, this guy's really calm.
>> Yeah. I'm I'm I'm calm.
>> Yeah. So, I described this way.
>> Very well reggulated, very self-aware,
it seems.
>> Yeah. Other people's emotions may go
like this like happy, sad, happy. I'll
feel happy, sad, happy, sad. But my ampl
amplitude,
>> the amplitude is very moderated
>> is narrower. Yeah. Right. Yeah. So,
>> so it just allows you to manage in many
ways. I mean, success is somewhat
illusurary. If you're like working on a
problem, nobody knows the toil.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
>> Nobody really wants to hear about the
toil. They want to have a very simple
way of pointing to something and say,
"Oh, wow. Look at what you have." But if
you're working and you have no time to
enjoy it,
>> nobody understands that, you know. Yeah.
>> Okay. So, you launched this thing, it's
going bananas, but there were some
hiccups.
>> Yep.
>> Do you think that you
got too addicted to the growth at any
point?
>> I wouldn't say I was addicted to the
growth, but I was addicted to the work.
>> Okay.
>> The work was actually very satisfying,
very rewarding. But, what was the
average day for you? What were you
trying to do? I was basically doing like
20 plus meetings a day like scheduled
calls or meetings and then plus other
random stuff and then having to respond
to people on Twitter and uh stuff. So um
but it was very rewarding because um
it's there's a sense of fulfillment that
is very hard to describe. It's not the
money, it's not the growth.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh it's uh you know
>> so what Yeah. What was it when you were
running Binance?
I don't know if you do this, but some
sometimes people fixate on the leading
indicator like revenue is a lagging
indicator, right? Revenue and profits
are just they're here. That's from six
months ago, a year ago.
>> Yeah.
>> Manifest today. What was your leading
indicators? What were the north stars
that you really cared about that said
this is the health of the system?
>> Yeah. Yeah. I think it's really daily
active users. It's not trading volume.
It's not revenue. Why DAO versus those
other things? I think as long as you
keep helping serving more users um then
you're you give them value. So I believe
a product is valuable when people want
to use it.
>> So the more people who wants to use it
even if your revenue is zero you have
you have value. So any product that
people use the more people you use it
the higher value right? So that's kind
of always my philosophy. Whereas
uh you you can optimize for revenue, you
can optimize for profit shortterm and
you can lose the long-term growth. But I
believe long-term if you have a large
number of people using your platform,
that's where you create value. Not just
for yourself, you also create value for
your users. People choose to use you
because there's a value in using you,
right? So that's kind of my my my
northstar. And
>> also knowing that related to that was
knowing that hundreds of millions of
people are using us, we help them,
right? So the way I view is if they pay
like you know a commission fee that
they're willing to pay because we we we
must have given them some higher value.
>> One of the double-edged sword of the DAO
>> is that some of those DAO are
bad actors.
>> Yep.
>> When was the first inkling that you had
that that may be a problem and that you
have to take that seriously?
>> It was like I think
>> what does that first meeting look like
where they're like CZ I have good news
and bad news.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I there's actually a very
clear point. I think it was like
Christmas day January 1st or like you
know New Year day January 1st 2018. So
this is like six five months after you
know we we were kind of large uh well or
five months after we started and we're
kind of we were number one uh exchange
already on that New Year's Eve uh
December 31stish uh 2017 a US Homeland
Security guy reached out to me. Um his
name I think is Joseph. Um I always
remember his name is Patrick or Joseph.
I'm not sure which one.
>> Okay. um he wrote an email and then I
got the email and said like well he
wants to he wants our help to help track
some hackers who may have moved funds of
the Ether Delta hack. Either Delta was a
decentralized exchange back in 2017 that
got hacked that went down. Um so this
guy who works for the US government uh
emailed us and I I didn't know how to
deal with it. Nobody on our team knows
how to deal with law enforcement. So um
I you know got a couple guys to huddle
up together say how how do we help this
guy? Uh and then we gave the information
that he requested. We verified who first
we had to verify who he was. And then um
uh and then afterwards he thanked us uh
and then I said, "Hey, um Joseph, can
you recommend somebody that we could
hire that can interface with law
enforcement in the future?" He
recommended someone, but it the guy was
based in the US and we don't have a US
entity. We we couldn't hire anybody in
the US back then. So we kind of had to
let that go. But that was the point. It
was like um New Year's Day. Uh I
actually remember
>> where you were like this is going to
happen more
>> obviously
>> invariably of large numbers.
>> Yeah. Yeah. So that that's the day when
I realized okay look we need to we need
we need to have somebody who has
experience working with law enforcement
>> and so what did you do?
>> So we we eventually hired we hired more
guys. Yeah.
>> Okay. Yeah.
>> Obviously like you're not looking at the
transactions. So you wouldn't know. But
if we fast forward a little bit, the
claims that then the US government under
President Biden made at you
was essentially that people like Hamas
or people like other organizations were
using Binance and you didn't do enough.
>> Yeah. So uh on this point I may have
some legal restrictions on what I can
say and cannot say about know the plea
the etc. So I I'm not a lawyer but I'm I
try to stay very clear from that. But
overall though, I would just say um the
Biden administration overall is quite
hostile to crypto. I mean they openly
announced war on crypto. Yeah. Right. So
uh it's good to see this new
administration change 180 degrees. I
think that's this is good for America.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh this is good for the world.
>> So uh I think it was I wouldn't blame
the previous administration, but I think
they just didn't understand.
>> Why do you think that they were so
hostile to it?
>> It's fear of the new as that as simple
as that. uh I think they probably in
their heads uh there's some degree of
let's not disrupt the current financial
system the banks whoever else um there's
probably a lot of lobbying from those
industries as well to them so that kind
of brainwash or affect the thinking
however you call it
>> so that's human nature I mean if you
think about it it's understandable it's
not ideal but uh it's understandable
>> so you're running the exchange things
are going well from 2018 2019 2020
>> it's kind of like you're really coming
into your own.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
>> You eventually opened a US entity.
>> Uh yeah, in 2019. Yeah.
>> And why did you feel the need to do
that?
>> So 2019 there was some news about no US
governments basically in my layman words
chasing BitMax. There was some Big Mac
in the news. Uh there were some also
Bitfinex stuff in the news. Uh I think
the US government frozen froze at least
the Poland government froze like six to
$800 million of their assets when their
market cap was
>> only like four billion. That's like a
large chunk. And then they got sued
later on by the US government saying
that they don't have enough reserves.
>> Yeah.
>> So we saw those news and we're like okay
well the US government is looking at
this industry and we better register and
you know again I asked my friends my
many of them have legal backgrounds and
then they sort of general consensus was
okay we got to we we should operate in a
registered faction in the US. So this is
2019. Um so we registered Binance US and
um it's a separate entities. It's a
separate deployment. Uh it's a separate
matching engine, separate liquidity. So
and Binance US has been regulated from
day one. Yeah.
>> 2019, 2020, 2021 things are just
generally working.
>> Generally. Generally. Yeah. Yeah.
>> Then you start to see some of these
other folks start to pick up steam. SPF
and FTX start to really Tell me about
that.
Um uh
>> how did you meet him? Because you ended
up owning a lot of the equity.
>> Yeah. Yeah. So well we we we invested in
them only 20% as equity at some point
and then we exited a year a year later.
Yeah. Um we didn't we didn't stay there
for very long.
>> Uh I think I'm first met him in January
2019 in one of the Singapore conferences
Binance organized.
>> I think at the time FDX did not exist.
uh uh Sam uh Bankerman Freed SBF was
running um Alamea and they hosted an
afterparty in the S uh Singapore uh
aquarium uh on Sentosa and they had
divers in the fish tank you know holding
a sign with etc. So they were they were
like a VIP client they were like a large
trader on Binance so we're friendly to
them.
>> Yeah. Right.
>> Yeah. So that was in January 2019 and
then a couple months later they came to
us saying look they want to start a
futures platform. They proposed a
futures platform uh some kind of a JV uh
that I I can't remember exactly but I
think they proposed 6040 in our favor.
Uh we we want I thought about countering
propos like we have we had all the users
they don't have anything back then. I
thought about counterproposing like 955
but I don't think that was very polite.
They're still like a trader. They still
like a VIP client.
>> So we declined that. We said no. Um
>> because they were a crucial part of the
liquidity pool.
>> Uh not a crucial part. They're a large
trader but you know Binance they they
were new too. They they it wasn't like
they were there for like many years.
>> Okay.
>> They were only there for like know
probably six months or a year. I don't
know the exact uh dates.
>> Um and then uh uh mid like a little bit
later they came back with a better
offer. Said look we uh uh like in summer
they came back with a better offer. We
still said no. Um and then in in
November they came back said okay look
we're going to offer you this really
really attractive offer. But then FTX
was launched. Have some volume. and they
said look we're going to give we're
going to basically give you 20% at this
at this price and there was a swap of
tokens B&B versus u FT tokens so that's
we got some initial uh FT tokens at the
time B&B tokens are much more liquid and
FT tokens are less liquid so um we done
that deal and then um almost as soon as
we did that deal I keep hearing from my
friends like you know SBF badmouthing us
in the Washington circles in the US etc.
I was like, "Come on." And then um they
also did some other stuff which which is
kind of annoying. Uh they they pay five
times salary uh of to our VIP uh uh
account managers uh that had access to
our VIP database and then so that girl
goes goes working for we if we match
that girl then we have to 5x everybody.
So like okay you you go work for them
and then
>> the day after the girl go works for them
our VIP clients gets called saying look
they going to get a better rate on FTX
etc. Like so I called Sam said like can
you stop doing this? We're like we're
your shareholder at the same time he's
like look see like can we do a onetoone
panel on a crypto event right so fine
and we're an investor we want we want to
help promote it. I actually want
multiple exchanges to be to be
successful in the industry because then
we wouldn't be the ones that get
targeted all the time.
>> Yeah.
>> But there was always like no I always
keep hearing there was some bad mouthing
some other this and that. So a year
later, I think it was mid early 2021, we
said uh and they were they were claiming
to be like raising money at you know 32
billion valuations. We're like, well,
why don't we exit actually? So, in our
investment clause, we had veto rights on
any future rounds, right? So, if you
want to block them, we could. I didn't
want to use that to block them. Uh
>> oh, wow.
>> So, I was like, you know, even if why
don't we just exit and we can compete,
>> right? So um and then we thought we we
talked about exit and then we exited I
think in if I remember correctly it was
in July the deal was finalized and the
transfer was done in July 2021 and this
is like a full a full year and a half
before they had issues at the time we
didn't know
>> right because there was some rumors that
a lot of their issues started after you
sold and they were somehow conjoined.
I'm sure you've heard of that but you
can put all of that to bed.
>> Yeah. So that's categorically not true.
And also because of the competitive
nature in the businesses, even though
we're a shareholder, I never really I
never ask them for for financial
statements.
>> Oh wow.
>> So I just, you know, I just didn't ask
for it. I'm a very passive investor. So
when I invest, I don't get involved in
their business.
>> Yeah.
>> Um and they also they're slightly
competitive. We have we had a futures
platform. They had they have a futures
platform. So I try to stay no let them
do their thing.
>> So post this the thing with the FTX
thing that most people talk about are a
couple things. One was the way in which
the restitution happened was suboptimal
to some of the holders of of FTX people
who had cash money there. The other
thing that people talk about is the
value of some of these investments post.
>> What do you think in the aftermath of
all of this? It says anything at all
about the industry or
>> um I don't crypto in general or Yeah. I
don't understand the whole uh bankruptcy
process whether that's fair or not. Um I
read a lot of different things online.
Also um just to be transparent, there's
an ongoing lawsuit between the state and
us. they want to try to claw back some
of the money that we got like a year and
a half before,
>> right?
>> So there's probably limited stuff I can
comment on that.
>> Um, yeah, but again, I'm not an expert
there, but I did hear some complaints
about, you know, some Chinese users not
allegible, etc., etc., but now from what
I read is the the because of their
appreciation of crypto now in US dollar
terms, uh, they have enough uh, right?
>> Even though if people held crypto back
then, they probably have gotten more. I
don't know what the deal is. When did
things at Binance
start to get complicated for you?
>> You mean with the US governments, right?
>> Yeah.
>> For me like uh they started asking for
information the information requests
which we always comply, right? So that
was like 2021 2022ish
and it was like uh late 2022 it was
getting more hostile. Um, and then I
think in early 2023 was more clear that
they were making uh they were uh we
either reach a deal of some kind or
they're going to indict us or stuff like
that. There was like it became
negotiations. How do you deal with that
as a person? Do you think I can't
believe this is happening? Like when
you're in this meeting and your lawyers
or whoever it is are telling you, hey
CZ, I think there's going to be an
indictment.
>> Yeah.
>> I don't How does that meeting go?
>> So, uh, number one, I'm not a legal
background, so I had to rely on a lot of
other people's advice. That's generally
the harder part for me because I don't
have experience there like no no one has
experience going through this. You go
through this once you never want to
touch it again. Right. So um so no one
really on on the receiving end have any
experience. Um you have a bunch of
lawyers and the lawyers are the lawyers
I think are good but how you organize
lawyers actually is quite tricky. If we
hire a bunch of expensive lawyers, they
all have different specialties and they
all have different opinions
>> and they all want to seem like the
smartest person that's driving the
decision
>> and also they they all want to take a
lot of time to analyze. They get paid by
more time they spend. Um I'm not saying
that they're unethical. They they want
to do a really good job.
>> Um but then they go in all kind of
different tangents. Um so you get
dragged in a lot of different different
places. That was the most troublesome
part for me. If somebody told me like
this are the three things you got to
focus on this is you know you got to
this strategy. We also didn't have a
strong legal team. Uh our team is young.
Uh we we our our legal team didn't have
this type of experience dealing dealing
with this type of uh uh uh issues. So
that was always tricky. But I kind of
look at when I come by the way where was
the entire team at this point still
>> this we're all spread out
>> now. You're everywhere.
>> We're now we're everywhere. We're spread
out. And I think I 2023 I was in Dubai.
Uh I was in Abu Dhabi Dubai split in
time. So um yeah it it was very
stressful um but the way I deal with
stress is I just look at the best and
worst case scenarios right so um say
asked team what's the best case scenario
okay you pay a fine you get a you know
you get a DPA or then this this thing's
over then okay so that's the best case
and then the worst case okay so they
were going to ask you to they're going
to try to put you in jail um stuff like
that
>> was that the worst case though because
at the time it seemed like the fact
pattern was folks would get some sort of
probation or
>> that would be the worst worst case but
also uh yeah so performing nobody got
put in jail but they they could ask for
it.
>> Yeah. Right. Right. Right. There's
actually another worst case which is you
fight it and then you if you if you come
if you can't agree on a term you fight
it and you stay in the UAE which is a
non-extradition country and you know and
now you have citizenship and so they
there's almost zero chance you'll get
extradited but then your travel is going
to be limited anytime if if you cross to
a different country even if that country
is a non-extragene country that can
still be a chance that there's a deal
being made right it's kind of leaving
fear so
>> plus it also creates complexity just at
governmentto government level if folks
are allies and it just it just creates a
lot of noise
>> it creates a lot of noise it also
creates a lot of pressure for the UAE
government potentially I don't want to
trouble people who gave me a citizenship
>> I don't want to be the trouble causer
>> right
>> right so um and uh so but you know there
are the the worst case scenario is like
you know you don't go there they indict
you and then you they put you on the red
notice list
>> um stuff like that right so that those
you know those those are potential
possibilities yeah so how did you
resolve It took like the negotiations
like was basically daily calls with with
like 12 20 lawyers on call for like more
than a year.
>> Uh more than a year more than a year
>> of back and forth with the president
Biden DOJ
>> the president Biden DOJ and and the most
common thing I hear from my lawyers is
we have never seen them this hostile on
a case like this.
>> Right. We have never seen this before.
This is this like that's the most common
phrase my I've heard. At some point you
just become desensitized to it or do you
keep internalizing it, personalizing it?
You think why is this happening to me?
No resentment or just more how did you
deal with it? I'm just
>> It takes it takes successive steps and
there were a couple steps which are
really hard to take. Um the step where
you say look in the negotiations right
they come to a few points where you say
look we just we're just going to have to
say no. Um and it's like look we just
can't agree to that deal. They wouldn't
back off and I couldn't agree to that
deal. We just have to say no. And then
there was a couple weeks that lapse and
you don't know what's going to happen.
So you
>> purgatory. So you could get indicted in
they can indict you any moment, right?
So that's their choice. You you you
already said no to that to that. There
were like a couple periods of like that
and then oh my god in those in those
couple weeks you're like you're mentally
thinking okay
>> I can't travel anywhere. Um so I I might
have to get used to this life of just
living in one country and be very
careful etc. there might be some sealed
indictment that that's not public the at
any border that you cross and u
interestingly they come back after two
weeks and they say okay we can negotiate
again and then you're like what do you
think is happening over there
>> well no I think that's a now looking
back that's a very that's a very useful
negotiation tactic for me or for anybody
in my situation for
>> the silence
>> uh yeah the silence for anybody who's
going through this on the receiving end
you only go through this once you're not
experienced this is your life I mean
there could be a red sealed red notice
against you um and this is the life they
have to deal with going forever and they
don't like this thing these things can
stay there for like decades for them
they do this every day this is like this
is their daily job right so and but they
I think they're smart enough that they
know two weeks is about the optimum time
because longer than that you really get
used to it and when they come back to
negotiate you're going to say no right
it's like look I'm already used to this
>> right so like if you leave the guy in
the situation for too long
>> interesting interesting
>> so so they're very skilled in this type
of uh mental uh uh uh work,
>> right? Whereas Yeah. So, there were some
really tough periods and for this type
of stuff, you don't get used to it. Um
you it's it's mentally challenging. How
did you get yourself to a place to agree
to the final terms?
>> After a lot of negotiations, we're like,
okay, um basically said, okay, I
validated a single uh single charge of a
banking secrecy violation, which is a
registration failure, which is a federal
crime. It's it's serious. Uh but no one
went to jail for this in history. Um and
um there's no there's no uh
>> sorry that charge that's more technical.
How does that relate to the perception
of what was in the media at least in
America which is money laundering and
aiding at abetting folks and not doing
KYC and not doing AML versus the actual
charge. Are those two things connected
and they're equal or these are sort of
disjoint
>> perception versus the actual specifics?
>> Sure. I can try to explain my
understanding. I'm not a lawyer. So I
want to make a small disclaimer here. Um
this is my layman understanding could be
wrong.
>> Uh there's a first my understanding
there's a first level is like banking
secrecy act violation which is a failure
to register. Basically you serviced we
service US users without register as a
financial services company in the US.
>> So that's a you thing that has nothing
to do with the user themselves doing
anything nefarious or bad.
>> No, you did not register with the proper
authorities to say I'm going to take on
US customs.
>> And so that's number one, right? So that
that that's the bait that's the kind of
bait layer. Okay. On top of that you can
say look you didn't have adequate KYC
AML procedures. So your all your
procedures are not strong enough. Um so
uh uh so that's another that's another
level which even even if you're not
registered you're also supposed to have
good KYC etc. AML procedures. Um and
those things are not and those things
people think that's a black and white
thing. In reality it's not. Uh it's how
well you do it. Uh which systems do you
use? what how do you do this?
>> How many people do you have? What's your
standard operating procedures? Yeah.
>> Yeah. So there's actually a lot of
details and then like uh quite a bit
above that in my understanding is if you
have somehow known and facilitated uh
bad transactions. So you can have a weak
AL pro AML program and that didn't catch
all the bad players but you you don't
know that.
>> Right. So it's not like you're
intentionally facilitating that.
>> It's not robust.
>> It's relatively naive but it's there.
>> Yeah. versus this is I know this to be
bad and I'm enabling it to happen
regardless.
>> Yeah. Right.
>> And there's the next level which you
personally handling the transactions.
>> Right.
>> Right. So which is you know uh you know
Charlie Charlie Shramm handled uh
transactions for Silk Road for for Ross.
Right. So that's how you know so there's
different levels. I don't handle any
transactions at all my myself. That's
just not my thing. I just don't do it.
And so they said okay Binance number one
we didn't register KYC ML is weak. Uh so
that those are things we can fine we can
agree on that
>> layer one layer two.
>> Yeah. So we can agree on that for those
single charges without any other
additional stuff. No one ever went to
jail in US history even till today.
Right. So u uh and then the government
uh we couldn't agree on the two addition
the government want to add two
additional charges they call
enhancements the three and four. The
three and four they said somehow I
personally facilitated but they couldn't
provide any evidence. They were trying
to lean on the company somehow something
happened in the company you know etc.
they were trying to use. Were they able
to point to a transaction or some
>> No, they wasn't. So this two
enhancements the court outright rejected
but we decided to we before I went to
the US we said we agreed that we will
argue that in court right um and also
based on I don't want to get into the
sort of privileged conversations but
like the understanding I went before I
went was no one went to jail the worst
uh guy who got punished was author Hayes
of Bitmax he got six months of home
confinement uh for run for for Bitmax
and uh when I look at that case he had
much more direct interactions with
clients
whereas I had much less direction. I
basically I don't deal with clients at
Binance. I deal with users on Twitter
but not like you know the Bance back end
kind of thing.
>> So I felt pretty confident that you know
we should be in a fairly strong position
and that's the best thing forward.
>> Right. So you're like we agree with
this. We agree with this. We're going to
really debate this in court. Layers
three and four. I'm going to come to the
US.
>> Yeah.
>> And we're going to hash it out in court.
>> So you land in America.
>> Yeah.
>> You go into the courtroom. you start
this process, what happens?
>> So yeah, there was quite a lot of
details there. Uh
first of all, the first like the first
day you go you go and plea, right? So
the plea the agreement has already like
debated
>> by the way. Sorry. And where you're
staying in a hotel?
>> I was staying in a hotel. Yeah, I was
staying in a hotel in downtown Seattle.
Um
>> is your family with you or No,
>> my family went to join to to Well, not
my not my not my not my kids. Um but my
sister and my mom went to join me. Um I
didn't want my kids to go um they have
school and and then my partner has a
business to run. Um I was already like
no no longer running the business.
>> Yeah.
>> So I didn't want to drag her away from
from from from that.
>> So um
>> yeah so my sister my my my my mom and my
older kids with with me
>> and then um uh yeah so that's and then I
was stay in a hotel um and then the next
morning go going to court. Going to
court the first part of the process is
the plea right. The judge asks you, "Do
you understand this paragraph, this
paragraph, this paragraph?" Just say,
"Yes, yes, yes." the the paragraphs were
already like negotiated like out of the
wazoo by the multiple so many lawyers
>> over lawyered
>> over lawyered and you the um so so you
know and then you then the lawyers
debate about you know the the uh they
didn't the first case when I after the
plea they didn't debate about the charge
they debate about my bail my bail
condition right so I got a post bail u
my lawyers argued I should be allowed to
go back to UAE waiting for the sentence
three months Later the government argued
that um uh I may not come back. So they
want me to stay in the US and they said
they will not restrict me in my movement
in the US because I don't I don't I
don't I I don't possess any harm to the
community. They argue about that the the
the magistrate judge the first judge
approved me leaving the US to go back to
the UAE for 3 months which would which
would have been great. And then the the
the government appealed that uh my
lawyer says like in his 40 years he
never seen a appeal on a bail condition.
>> Wow.
>> And then he said well this guy is a ton
death uh because they will this will
piss off the courts which will actually
be my favor. And guess what two weeks
later the court ruled ruding in the
government's favor and I was kept in the
US. So I was kept away from home uh for
three months. When three months came
>> that hotel
>> I was free to travel in the US. I was
like well I'm stuck in the US so might
as well travel. Uh I had a sister my
sister have a place in the US. So I was
staying with my sister for a bit of the
time and then I was traveling um just
cool just to try to keep myself cool.
Chill. All right. Um and then 3 months
later the government requests for
another 3 months extension. So now I
have to stay in the US for another 3
months longer waiting for
>> Now were your kids at this point coming
to see you at least so that they could
come see you or
>> No, I I did not ask them to come and see
me. Um
>> so you didn't see them for six months?
>> Uh yeah and well actually I didn't see
them for that year. Yeah. For Yeah.
>> Yeah. So uh and then so the government
asked for another 3 months extension
then on April 30th 2024 uh that's my
core date and then a week before that is
when both sides submit their their
request the government request for 36
months which is twice the maximum
sentencing guideline for the worst case
scenario for me. Right. So the court
said like then this court had never seen
a government asking the court to ignore
the sentencing guideline. Did you find
that out for the first time sitting
there in the court?
>> No, just a week before the court because
the government had to make the subm
submission. There's a written submission
before.
>> How did you react to that?
>> Well, not good. Right. So, uh and then
my lawyers also the my lawyer told
changed before they said, "Oh, you can
probably get home." They said, "Look,
the judge most likely is going to split
the baby." So, if the government's
asking for 36 months, you're asking for
probation. The the government most
likely to pick some number in between,
right? So I was like, "Okay, that's not
good."
>> Wow.
>> Yeah. And also 5 days before my
sentencing, um on April 25th,
Senator Elizabeth Warren went on TV to
say to declare war on crypto again. Um
so this is like 5 days before my
sentencing. Um and he wrote an open
letter. She wrote an open letter to the
DOJ saying all this stuff. Um which is
actually most of it is is is not
correct.
So uh yeah. So then that's and April
30th I got sentenced and then the judge
the judge said a bunch of good really
good things about me. Uh I have all the
excerpts in the book but then at some
point the judge says but and then you
like okay that's not good.
>> Wow.
>> Yeah. And then I got forward
>> that's how they start the sentencing.
They're like he's telling you all the
good things and then he gets to the butt
and you're like oh my god.
>> Pretty much. Pretty much. Yeah.
>> Wow.
>> Yeah. So uh the the lawyer still debate
the sentencing on the April 3rd is the
lawyers debating court about no this ar
that's when the two hazmats got rejected
u by the court like my lawyers argue
like no this and that uh this I never
touched any of transactions I'm not
aware this things just
>> layers three and four of the accusations
got thrown out.
>> Yeah. So um and then uh they argue about
you know what's what what should what
should what the recommended uh
sentencing should be. My lawyers of
course argued for either uh home uh
probation uh or home confinement at the
worst case, right? Um and then the
government argued like this guy's really
bad guy, you know, this case is really
big. Um and we should punish him really
really hard with double the punishment
of any legally recommended punishment.
Uh 36 months. Um so the judge landed at
four.
>> How did you deal with that?
>> It was difficult at at the beginning,
right? Um it wasn't a full month. It was
am I going to be safe?
>> Yeah.
>> Right. So if if if like if you tell me
like I'm going to go to this place for 4
months. Am I I'm guaranteed to be safe?
I'll be okay. I be like, "Okay, fine. I
I just deal with it." But the uncertain
part is like uh also right after the
sentencing, uh um a bunch of the big
media wrote that I'm going to be the
richest person to ever go to US prison.
Uh and or and then my lawyers plus
prison consultants they say well given
all the all this coverage
>> what is a prison consultant
>> that's a whole industry of some guy who
advise you what prison is like and give
you advice and stuff like that how to
live how to yeah so that's a whole big
industry that's growing because of the
prison population is growing in the US
so anyway so the prison consultants like
given the highprofile coverage you are a
prime you're the probably the biggest
target for potential extortion
in in in prison. So your safety is going
to be a issue. So that's the thing I was
worried about then. I was like uh so how
how do I deal like you know you go in
and they you don't have anything, right?
Um how how do you how do I make sure
that I stay safe? Um uh that's like the
the top consideration, right? So you
you're really thinking about how do you
do that? So well you know um you talk to
a lot of people who prison consultants
are usually like um exgards ex wardens.
There's another group of guys who people
who have been to but those guys are in
prison but they working there. They're
not they're not inmates. There's another
group of guys who've been into prison
prison like know they they were there
for like as a inmate. So you talk to a
lot of those guys. Um and then uh you
figure out what prison is like. Do you
make friends? Do you not make friends?
you get advice on like know if somebody
comes up on to you on the first day and
they're really really friendly don't
take anything from them because know
they will ask for 10 times more favor
back later on if you don't then they
stab you and stuff like that so um I got
a lot of different advice but at the end
of the day you just got to go and face
it right so um um I learned what I
learned is actually the US prison system
so vast 2 million people stay in US
prison the US government spends perm
more on prison than the on education on
schools right so That's know how much uh
how big the US prison population is. And
uh because and there's 50 states and
everyone every state has a different
system. Uh the state prisons, there's
federal prisons and each one is like a
mini city. They each like the prison I
went in has um has 2200 inmates. It's
like a small city. Um and they each have
their own rules, etc. So I got some
advice um but many of those advice are
not really useful. But when you go in,
you just got to deal with it. Yeah.
>> So, you get sentenced on April 30th, you
said.
>> Yeah.
>> And when do you start?
>> So, when you get sentenced, you don't
know where we don't know which prison
you're going to. The court makes two
recommendations. Um, and then um uh
usually you will receive a letter in
>> but you're you can be in the hotel or
doing whatever and then you have to
check in basically on some date like you
have to go. So, in my case, the judge
ruled that I don't need supervision
which is very unique. Um then I don't
have to check in. So I just have to sit
uh I just have to wait for a letter uh
that comes to my sister's place which is
a address I I register with a court. In
fact the the the government the DOJ in
their request they asked me to be uh
pre-manded uh meaning I'll be taken away
with in hungcuffs.
>> Uh I think they really wanted that photo
for PR reasons but the judge said look
he's not a risk. He's not a flight risk.
He's not a risk to society. I'm not
going to do I'm not I'm not going to do
that. In fact, the judge added one
sentence that said, uh, he doesn't he
does not need supervision, which is
actually a very interesting legal clause
I learned later. So, this is why when I
finish my sentence, I don't have
probation. I there's no parole. I don't
I don't need supervision.
>> Oh, wow.
>> So, um, uh, so there's some really
interesting stuff. Well, interesting
stuff that you learned.
>> How was that period for you?
>> Did anything bad happen or was it
>> Luckily, nothing too bad happened. Uh,
it's not it's a really bad experience
overall, but nothing like no physical
harm. uh there's no fights uh there's no
um there's no real extortion what I
found like so my prison consultants tell
me like know when you go in don't join
any gang stay to yourself uh uh just you
know just just stay to yourself uh be
quiet stay out of sight just
>> the minute I walked into the prison gate
the guard says well you're going to need
some protection here um I I hear the
Pacific Islanders are hiring so you
might want to join them like that's like
this is literally like the minute I
walked through the gate one guard was
saying this to me.
>> Wow.
>> I was like, what does that mean? Right.
Um, and then, you know, after the whole
day, the first day was like the first
day is pretty like they take you through
so many process. You strip search. I
talked on CNBC like, you know, they they
strip search you and then you move to
your unit, which is like, you know, 200
inmates there. Um, it's like three rows
of cells, 20 20 cells each facing each
other, three floors, and there's a
common area in the in the bottom. Um,
and there's like 200 macho guys looking
at you and you know, you walk into a
cell and then um, but what actually
found out is um, they organize prisons
by race. Uh, so by ethnicity uh, they
group uh, so if you are a Chinese dude,
they group you with a Chinese dudes. Um,
and if you're like a white guys, they
group you with white guys. Black dudes
group with Mexicans, Spanish guys, no,
they they put them in one group. Um,
this actually does avoid a lot of
conflicts. um you are more likely to get
along uh with people of your own
ethnicity in terms of culture, customs
like know Arab there was one or two Arab
uh uh guys that you know they they pray
they know they have a different
schedule. Um so uh they put you in
groups by ethnicity and the guards
actually incur the prison encourages
because it reduces uh fighting.
>> Oh wow. Um and then once you're in your
group, uh if you have a problem with
somebody else in somebody some other
group, there's a group rep and the rep
will talk about it and you know there's
like a hierarchy and so u union reps
>> kind of like a union reps. Yeah.
>> And then they come together and they
hash out.
>> Yeah. They say look step stand down. We
walked we walked through it. So uh so
there's a system to it but I I I didn't
know any of this right. So I walk in and
then this um half ch half Asian looking
dude comes to me say look u my name is
Chino um welcome to our group uh he says
car welcome to our car I was like what
what should I shake his hand should I
not like am I joining this gang this
like it's yeah
>> that's crazy
>> yeah and this this guy is a Filipino
German mix uh there's not enough Asians
so they kind of group anything that's
kind of Asian and they also group the
Native Americans plus plus Pacific
Islanders like how the Hawaiians into
the same group. So our group only has
six people out of this 200 people. Um
and I was sent to a low security prison.
I should be eligible for a minimum
security prison which is one one level
lower where most of the white collar
crimes go. But because I'm not a US
citizen, uh they put me into a low which
is where all the drug laws are. So uh
wow.
>> Uh yeah. So that's a it's a crazy
experience. I have quite a lot quite a
quite a lot of details about this part
in my upcoming book. What was the first
thing you did when you got up?
>> A good shower. A good meal. Um the when
you first get So the shower is like
literally like you know box this big.
This is like a this is like a a cowboy
uh bar door like that covers the middle
part. They can see your legs and see see
your head. Um but it's hard to take a
shower without touching the wall. Um so
the when you get out of prison the first
time it's like taking a shower no you no
longer need to touch the shower wall.
That's like a luxury that's a luxury.
And uh also um uh there's very limited
fruits, uh very limited protein, like
good like proper protein. Um there's a
lot of carbs, uh a lot of like you know
uh bread, uh uh uh flowers, fried stuff.
Um very little veggies, very little
protein, very little fruits. Um I
haven't seen a whole fruit for like
months. When I saw when I got out and
saw like a plate of fruit, I was like,
"Wow, that's that's a luxury I haven't
seen for a few months."
>> Wow.
>> Yeah. Did you immediately just go back
to the UAE?
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. When I left prison, it took took
me about six 26 minutes from leaving the
uh the the the prison door to getting on
the airplane and flying out.
>> What were you thinking? Were you saying
to yourself, "I understand where they
were coming from, and I was at least
vindicated
on the parts that I felt were overreach.
I can see where they were coming from
with these first two things." Did you
say that to yourself or did you say
this was a total railroad and this is
completely unfair and how did this
happen to me? Why did this happen to me?
What were you saying to yourself?
>> I have some restrictions on some on what
I can say about the agreement, the plea,
etc. So, um I
>> I'm just talking emotionally.
>> Emotionally, I just want to be I would
just want it to be over with. Um and
remember that when I first got out, this
is still the Biden administration. The
election has not happened. Um, and uh,
uh, it wasn't clear who's going to win.
It wasn't clear the U. The US policy is
still the same.
>> You went in when?
>> I went in on May 30th, 2024,
>> and you got out four months later.
>> Uh,
September 27th is the day I fully got
out. The election was in November,
>> right?
>> And by the way, sorry, at that point,
you had been in America for a year.
>> For you hadn't seen your kids in a year.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. So, at that point, like, I just
want this whole thing to be over with.
Um, and I thought they will continue.
Well, I was thought if they if the
policies continue, then you will still
be anti-crypto uh policies, um we'll
just whatever we'll just survive however
we survive. Um so, um yeah, so that that
was that was kind of the mentality.
>> So, when you get back, had you come to
terms as well with the fact that you
couldn't run Binance per se and that
that was part of the plea and
>> uh yeah, so I'm actually okay with that.
Uh stepping down was really really hard.
Um I actually cried out of it and the
the only other time I really cried was
like know when my father passed away a
few years ago. Um but after a few after
coming back uh you know I was actually
quite happy not to run Binance. I have a
lot more free time. Um and then if I
step down myself people say hey this
this guy ran out of stamina but like now
I can't run Binance. So uh so it's not
my fault. It's not your problem. It's
not it's not my choice.
>> Right. But after after a while I was
like know there there other there are
other very useful meaningful things I
can do with my life. Uh I am I think
overall I'm in a very fortunate position
right um I have resources um I have
enough money to do whatever I want to do
uh in terms of amling projects and
businesses etc. Um including like know
Google academy free education stuff like
that.
>> Yeah I wanted to talk about that in AI.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> But before I do that let's just do a
little bit of the final kod here. Tell
me about the process to start getting a
pardon and getting it and what you had
to do and
>> Yeah. So the so on the pardon um I don't
think anybody knows what the pardon
process is.
>> It doesn't seem like there's a process.
>> Like I don't even know what the process
is. So what the process is you find a
lawyer who writes you a petition who put
all the arguments why you were you
should be pardoned why you know you were
over overly prosecuted etc etc right and
why you're a good person. And a pardon
what is it for? Is it effectively to
recognize overprosecution?
>> No. Partnership partnership er you raise
everything you had you had before. So
you're you're now a very normal person.
>> But the reason to be considered for it
can be anything.
>> Can be anything.
>> It's really just the discretion of the
president reading the petition.
>> I think so. Uh well based on my
understanding based on my understanding
is um uh the constitution grants the US
government or the US president to give
partisans and that's as about that's
about as much detail as it says I think.
>> Right. Okay.
>> Um and then how he does it.
>> So it's really about the social norms in
that moment and then how he interprets
>> I think so
>> those social norms.
>> Yeah. And then you know historically
most presidents pardon on the last day.
Right.
>> Exactly.
>> And then Biden I think started uh
pardoning some in between and
>> and he also did pre-pardons
>> which is which is which is a bit new
which is new and also crazy.
>> Well it was very new. Yeah. I was
largely around co for for for that but
>> yeah that that really caught a lot of
people. He he also pre-pardoned his son
for some for some for some period.
>> That's right.
>> Biden prayed.
>> It wasn't just the co stuff. That's
>> it wasn't just a co stuff. It was like a
period where nobody where a period of
time where nobody even talked about.
>> That's right.
>> It was like why do we need it to
>> But anyway, so the process I believe is
there's no process. The president can do
whatever they want and then u so you
petition and you wait and then uh
there's there is a pardon SAR in the
white house. Uh I think her name is
Alice Johnson. uh she also went to
prison for many years. She wrote she she
wrote a really nice book which I read um
but your lawyers you know pink her say
they need a status update they need a
status update and there's no no and then
suddenly it happened. So uh uh that's
kind of my the the uh extent I know
about the pardon process. I don't think
anybody know I don't think that's a
fixed process. I don't think anybody
knows what that is.
>> The question that some people can kind
of jump to is they think what must CZ
have done to try to get it. Do you want
to put that to bed?
>> Well, I didn't do much. I didn't do
anything. And then but I think look, um,
without the apartment, it's quite hard
for Binance to enter the US in a in a
proper way. I think if you
>> because you're the Ubo.
>> I'm the UB. Yeah. So, uh, and B I'm the
UBO of Binance and Binance US, right?
>> Without a partner, Binance, Binance is
severely limited to do stuff in the US,
>> right?
>> Uh, if US wants to become the capital of
crypto in the world, you cannot have not
you cannot not have the largest player.
you cannot not you cannot have US people
not be able to access the largest
liquidity pool.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh in crypto and also we're the we're
also one of the largest crypto
ecosystems. Uh so I think uh my guess
would be that look the president is a
pro crypto president. Um you obviously
um
>> he's had his own issues like the
debanking. Exactly. Where he's felt what
it feels like to be targeted.
>> Not only debanking he got 34 criminal
charges.
>> Yeah. Right. And he got like one of the
I don't know all the other charges but
>> that as well.
>> When I was in prison I saw on the prison
TV that he got 34 criminal charges like
and one of the charges was he brought
some document to his bathroom to read.
>> That's like that's crazy,
>> right? So I think the fact that he went
through that do the Biden DOJ will
probably help me a lot to get the pardon
because he will sympathize. He he knows
how aggressive that DOJ was, right? So
um that's that probably helped me in
some way.
>> So how do you spend your time now?
>> I'm still getting pretty busy now. So I
do giggle academy um you know this free
education platform. I consult with many
governments on uh to help them to
putting so sound crypto regulatory
policies. Um I get involved on the
investment side. We we invest in the um
blockchain AI biotech um the very active
team um uh doing investments and then uh
>> this is within Binance or outside of
>> this is outside of Binance. this is a
part of easy labs and then I also help
like mentor coach a few guys in the a
few funders in the B&B chain ecosystem
etc. So between all of those things, I'm
actually pretty busy.
>> Tell me about Google Academy.
>> So I thought no, it's possible to uh
develop fully digitize all education
content. And why is that important?
>> There's some numbers. I think 7 700 to
800 million adults do not are
illiterate. Two two-third of them are
women. And on top of that, there's about
500 million kids who are not in school.
So if you add all of that up, that's
like 1.2 billion people. Yeah.
>> Uh who are not educated. Uh and this
>> 12 12 13% of the world population.
>> Yeah. And uh these are all in really
poor areas. Uh they there's just no
schools around or they just couldn't
afford to go to school. Um and the
schools are not very good today either.
Um the schools are like you know they
the schools average you out.
>> Yeah. No you um you have a classroom and
>> how is the software designed?
>> So it's just an app on a phone uh on a
phone or tablet. It's just an app. Um I
believe that we have enough technology
with you know gaming understanding of
human psychology with AI a single app
can deliver all the education content
you need and we can do that for free.
>> Have you looked at versions of this like
alpha school and do you have any
opinions on that?
>> Yes. Yes. I think alpha school is great.
Um Alpha School is really really good.
Um uh but you know it's high cost
>> high cost
>> right. So uh uh it's more I think um
>> I think Joe's software is called time
back. I think that's what it's called.
Yeah.
>> Have you had a chance to see?
>> I have not played with a with a lot. Uh
I did meet some of the founders there
and some of the key executives there. Um
uh they target a they solve a very hard
problem of making making the existing
education better where I solve the other
end of the problem making the education
accessible,
>> right?
>> Uh hopefully better later too.
>> And so your goal would be that
this is widely proliferated.
Are there schools in your view of how
giggle works or
>> No, I actually don't want to do schools.
Uh, I I want everyone to learn from one
app.
>> The software is very reward oriented.
>> Yeah.
>> Badges.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> I'm just going to ask the obvious
question.
>> When I looked at it, I was like, well,
>> badges is like a trail of breadcrumbs to
like
>> tokenize and earn and payments. Am I
just making this up or?
>> No. Uh, so I thought really hard about
this. Um, but I res I will for a very
long time resist issue a token on the
gold academy. This has pros and cons. Uh
when you issue a token, you can do the
rewards. You can earn uh learn to earn.
Learn to earn. Exactly. You can do a
bunch of stuff. You can do you can
incentivize teachers. You can to create
content.
>> Yeah.
>> Um that's good. Um but the uh for me I
want to avoid the token because of me,
>> right? Because if I do a token, everyone
wants to buy the token and everyone on
the platform.
>> People want to speculate on the token.
People the then I won't be able to tell
if people are they real kids learning or
they just farmers that that are trying
to farm the token. Yeah.
>> Um, I want to rem uh if I issue a tok if
Google issue a token, everyone's going
to
>> I have to be honest. I think giggle
sounds really incredible, but that was
where my reptilian brain went was the
>> everyone thinks about that obvious
thing, right? Yeah, exactly.
>> Um, but I want the giggle I want to be a
real free education platform instead of
a token platform instead of some crypto
thing.
>> Right. So if if there's a token then
people is going to focus on the token.
>> So your goal is that you'll just deficit
finance this and just continue to kind
of proliferate this.
>> Yeah. Yeah. So that was my goal. But
what happened is um there's a community
project that donates um donated like $12
million based on
>> 12 million$12
>> million US based on memecoin. Um and
this is not some like and I've only
spent like maybe three $4 million on the
entire project so far.
>> Yeah.
>> So now you know it's actually net like
you know it's hard to give money away.
>> Yeah.
>> So uh it's hard to give money away with
positive impact.
>> With positive impact it's very very
difficult. So u very difficult.
>> So uh yeah. So my plan is I will fund it
for as long as it needs to reach that
goal uh of a fully um fully digitized
delivery of education in a gamified
sticky way. Let me ask an AI question
for a second.
>> Yeah.
>> You said that AI is this third pillar of
your life that you see these big waves,
right? Yep.
>> One of the most interesting things about
AI is that when you basically get one
level below the English and you start to
look at the embeddings and that the
layer of embeddings,
>> what you start to see is that it's this
machine readable language. It's not
English.
>> Yeah.
>> And there's a richness of information
there. It's perfect for agents.
>> It can traverse it. You can cipher query
it. You can do all this stuff that
allows you to make really incredible
leaps in productivity and otherwise.
>> Yeah. It stands to reason that agents
are also participants of commerce and
need payments and you know and I think
you've said this is like probably the
largest user of crypto at some point in
the near future. Describe that vision
for us.
>> Yeah, I think it's it's it's fairly
straightforward. I think as you said
right I think it's very clear soon we're
gonna each of us going to have like know
hundreds or thousands or millions of
edgings working for us in the background
and they will be transacting they will
be they will be moving money around
right so uh in theory if I want to
listen to this podcast you know your
people should pay a few cents to to
listen to it um whatever economic model
that you want you
>> more than that CC
>> sure of course sure but there was some
economic model right uh right now u you
know even last year we talked about
aging is buying tickets for us. It's not
quite there yet, but you will get there,
right? Uh they will book restaurants.
They'll pay they'll pay for hotels for
us. Um and then um uh the agents can
transact a million times more than us.
>> Yeah.
>> And they're not going to use banks. Uh
banks just won't be able to
>> Well, banks won't onboard and AML KYC an
agent. Doesn't even make sense.
>> You can't do a KYC. They
>> It doesn't make any sense,
>> right? So, uh
>> but also what agents will do is they'll
transact at a transaction volume and at
a rate. Yeah. It'll make the traditional
network's head spin.
>> Exactly. They're just not going to be
able to support it.
>> Yeah.
>> Right. And also um even stuff like
investments or trading, right? So today,
you know, you open the Binance app, you
look at a chart, you have to like, you
know, click on a price level and you
have to type in the price and a green or
red button. That shouldn't be the
interface. The interface should be like,
hey, look, convert 10% of my stable
coins into B&B. And then you'll figure
out, okay, if you have a large position,
you'll do slowly over time. Uh if you
have a small position, which what be one
one market order? Um, all of that stuff
should be just happening in the
background. All right. So, the agent can
do this for us. Uh, you soon you will be
able to.
>> What is the most viable payment system
today that agents could rely on?
>> I'm actually not too sure. Uh, I don't
think there is any one that's super
that's what crypto project today do you
think comes
>> Oh, you mean crypto?
>> Yeah.
>> That agents could use theoretically.
>> Again, it's early days. I don't want to
speculate. I don't want to name any
specific projects. Um, it'll cause some
token price fluctuations. Um but quite a
number of people are working on it. Uh
so especially recently with a more like
a AI agent social network thing. So it's
getting more and more hype.
>> Yeah. Um and uh yeah. So I think you
you'll get there.
>> Let me ask you about crypto in general
for a second. What is the role when you
see
a lot of stuff around free speech? What
is the role of privacy in crypto? One of
the things that I struggle with. If you
ask me am I a Bitcoin maximalist? I
would say no. Even though I was early, I
think my biggest issue with it is that
there's a lack of fungeability, which I
think is problematic to get to mega
scale and then there's a lack of
privacy.
>> I agree. It's probably the biggest thing
that will hold Bitcoin back from being
ubiquitous. Where does privacy play as
the world evolves as you see it? I think
privacy plays a very fundamental role in
our society. But right now, as you said,
I also think that uh Bitcoin and most
cryptocurrencies do not have enough
privacy features.
>> Yeah. Um I think when Bitcoin was
designed it was going to be pseudo
anonymous but the fact is every
transaction on the blockchain you can
trace especially now you have a
centralized exchange with KYC.
>> Exactly.
>> Um and you know if you have like
it's actually very easy
>> and by the way we go always back to the
same argument which is it always goes
back to the corner case of well
somebody's using this for something
illicit. And I say there are those use
cases, but the overwhelming majority is
you buy a pack of gum, but tomorrow you
may buy, you know, you may want to buy a
certain movie or a video game, you may
want to buy a cigarettes. And it's not
for me to judge.
>> Yeah.
>> And
dollars are funible in that sense.
There's complete anonymity. We have no
idea about what it was used before that
I got my hands on it.
>> Yeah. Well, there there actually real
applications where privacy is extremely
important. uh if you book a certain
hotel and people know that hotel address
like blockchain hotel address receiving
address they will know that you will be
in that hotel. That's right. That's a
that's a physical security for for you.
That's right.
>> Right. So there there are real use cases
where privacy is very important. This is
why people don't publicize their home
addresses online.
>> That's right.
>> In many countries if you if you reveal
somebody in Japan if you re review
somebody's home address that's illegal,
right? So uh um so there they're they're
real there are real use cases for
privacy and which Bitcoin uh most
cryptocurrencies currently do not
provide.
>> Yeah.
>> Um there's a counter argument okay law
enforcement wanted to track down bad
guys that can be done uh even with no
that can be done. Um we I'm supportive
of that but there's fundamental privacy
issues. So uh I do think that in the
future we uh as an industry need to
figure out how to uh evolve the privacy
features which no one no one's really
focusing on right now. There's a few
privacy focus of coins. I I was going to
say no one. Um but they are they don't
have much market cap. They don't they
don't have much size.
>> Right.
>> Yeah. Tell me about the book. It's
coming along. It's a it's a it's a it's
it's a always a longer project than I
anticipate. Right. What was the point of
it? Was it is like catharsis or is it to
make a point? Is it to tell the story?
All of those things?
>> A bit of everything. It started because
I was bored. uh because I was I started
drafting when I was in prison. It was
just to get keep me busy uh because I
don't want to deal with you know I don't
want to be chatting with it just keep me
busy in in prison. So I started drafting
it and typing on on a very dumb terminal
and sending it to my assistant. Um and
then once I got out I was like well I
have enough that if I spend a bit more
time on it I can have a book. And then
um uh but but editing a book takes so
long. uh every every every pass takes
like two three weeks if you want to edit
a book because like know right now it's
like uh 95,000 words so it's like 300
pages um and then um I'm also editing
the English and Chinese version so uh uh
so it just takes longer but the point of
the book right now I think is just to
get the story out I think there's many
misconceptions about who I am uh what we
what I went through
>> what are those misconceptions do you
think
>> well there's a lot of negative media
about crypto there's a lot of negative
media about uh um uh CZ, Binance, um the
entire industry and to some extent I
think there's a lot of negative media
about Trump the party etc. I that part
is not too heavy in my book. I just know
this is as simple as we we talked about
on this podcast but just for people to
understand like you know who we who I am
uh who B to some extent by extension who
Binance kind of is from my perspective.
>> Is it important story for your children?
>> I think so. Yes. Yeah.
>> Why? Um I think it's important for them
to un like no they see they of course
are more on my side. They know all this
media uh not the right stuff. Uh but
they haven't I didn't have time to
explain the story to them in this level
of detail and I think it's important for
them to read this and they will
understand a lot more detail than what I
what I'm able to tell them verbally or
in person etc. Uh even though the book
doesn't contain everything but it's as
much as I can put in. What do you want
for your kids? I want them to live a
healthy and happy life however they
define it. Uh if they're happy just
being a normal person then that's good
for me. Uh if they want to do startups
and you know build companies and that's
great. Um if if they want to be artistic
etc that's great. If they want to do
human humanitarian efforts charity
that's also great. Um whatever they
figure out what they want to do I just
want to be there to support them. Um uh
yeah that's how similar or different is
that from what you got from your
parents? pretty similar. My my parents
didn't have pressure to on me. Uh my pre
my parents didn't pressure me to be this
and that. Like they didn't they're not
even like normal Chinese parents where
they want you to be a doctor or engineer
or
>> lawyer, engineer,
>> lawyer. Those that was my parents. Yeah.
Okay.
>> My parents didn't do that with me. My
parents like you can do whatever you
want. Just my parents said to me like
>> very unche very unche u my parents said
don't hurt yourself. Don't hurt other
people. Right. So don't do drugs. Uh
don't get into like you know don't don't
get into crime. Um, and then don't hurt
other people. Uh, so that's as simple as
like as I got from my parents. And uh,
yeah, I think there's a lot of people
that probably hear this and
they'll probably think that, and I think
this is a real compliment, by the way,
so don't take this wrong when I say this
this way. That could have been me, too.
Yeah. I think that we glorify success in
a way that makes it seem like it's
impregnable. It's like this very
quicksotic thing that happens and it's
not that.
>> No.
>> Yeah.
>> And
the reason why I can say that is that
when I spend time with you and I'm sure
now with the people, you know, rounding
two hours with you,
>> they'll think, man, this guy is
really normal.
>> It's a nor I'm a normal dude.
>> Exactly. A lot of people say that like,
>> you know,
>> to me as well in this weird way, it's
like you're just a normal guy. And it's
like there's something really valuable
about working on things that you like
because then the time just passes.
>> Yeah.
>> And you kind of just put your head up
and you're like, "Wow, okay, there's
something new to try. Let's go try that.
Let's go learn something." I want to
give you a chance to speak to all these
people who are probably thinking to
themselves, "Wow, that could be me."
>> Absolutely. I think um number one, I'm a
normal dude. Uh I don't I don't think I
know I'm not super smart. Uh but you
don't need to be super smart to to be
successful. You can't be too dumb, but
you can't be you don't need to be super
smart. There's a lot of other things
like you know principles, values, uh
emotional quotient, a lot of those those
things come into play. I think um
there's a lot a lot of luck as well. Um
but I think for most people um you are
in a situation where you are you usually
cannot change the situation. So what you
can only do is change yourself, right?
So if you just push yourself a little
bit every day, you don't have to push
yourself too hard. You too you push
yourself too hard, you're gonna burn out
and you're not going to last long. But
you want to push yourself to like 120%
110 130 somewhere in that range where
however you can last long.
>> Yeah.
>> And if you do that for like 30 years and
you get lucky, you will most likely be
relatively successful. You might not be
a you might not be a billionaire, but
you'll you you'll have a very
comfortable life. Do
>> you think that it's important to
maybe dispel the myth that being a
billionaire is not everything it's
cracked up to be?
>> Oh yeah, absolutely. U money is money.
So in in our life there's a few if I
kind of picture spiderweb graph right
money is only one tangent.
>> Yeah.
>> Right. So once you have enough having
>> one thread
>> it's one thread. Having more doesn't
help you. Uh in fact there's health
there's family um there's other things
that can keep you happy like your values
uh contribution positive impact like
that's intrinsic internal rewards that
you feel very happy about. Um a lot of
those things are extremely important. So
once you have enough money on this graph
you don't more doesn't make you happy.
Sometimes you have more, sometimes you
have less. Um, then how's your health?
Also, like there's another dime, time.
How much time do you have? Can you use
your time the way you want? Can you are
you working on the stuff you you want?
Are you spending with the people that
you you want to spend with?
>> Yeah.
>> Um, and are your family healthy? Uh,
you'll be you were very lucky if your
family is all healthy. Like that's
that's already a huge gift.
>> Um, so uh and then your mental health is
also important. How to deal with
pressure etc. I somehow am very lucky to
have a very sort of stable uh mind. So I
think all of those things are extremely
important and all of those things you
can improve on uh instead of just money.
A lot of people only chase money but
sacrifice everything else. They work
really really hard. They don't have free
time. They are not spending time with
their family. Their health deteriorates
after 10 20 years.
>> They don't enjoy the time that they're
spending on these things even to get the
thing that they have so much of that
they don't need.
>> Yeah. Yeah. So this is also the this is
also the part like you know I'm actually
very grateful that I don't have to run
Binance anymore now I have more time.
>> Yeah. Whereas before like even though
that was very enjoyable but on my other
questions I was not doing well.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. So yeah.
>> CZ thanks for joining the online
podcast.
>> Thank you. Thank you for having me.
I'm going all in.